there's an interesting moment in the  manifesto of the unabomber if you don't  know who the unabomber was and who the  bomber is  he's a former university professor who's  now been in prison for many many years  ah  there's a moment in his own manifesto in  which he reflects  nobody would have paid attention to us  nobody would have cared about our  political perspective if we hadn't  started killing people  now  the element of deception here is that  throughout his manifesto throughout that  phase of his career as a terrorist  frankly  um  he pretended that he represented  a large group of people or or some kind  of organized political party or faction  um his his early messages as a terrorist  were always signed fc  uh you might think that stands for  football club but it stood for freedom  club  he represented himself as a club of  people  uh and he was one man entirely alone  there was never even one other member or  one other acolyte one other follower  however so  in one sense what he was writing to the  authorities in these letters was  intentionally deceptive and misleading  but there's also something unusually  honest in him saying that nobody would  have ever cared about his manifesto no  one would have cared about his  philosophy nobody would have cared about  his politics if he had not started  killing people not just violence in a  vague sense but specifically murdering  people  now  when you look back  at the last 20 years of what happened in  the vegan movement and you look ahead  to the next 20 years of the vegan  movement it's remarkable that we as  vegans  aren't thought of that way  right like it's amazing that nobody or  nobody with a high enough public profile  nobody notorious enough  in the news in the press  has taken that step  that you've seen gary yourofsky hint at  again and again that there's something  inevitable uh to vegans actually taking  up arms taking up guns holding people at  gunpoint and demanding that uh they  close down slaughterhouses or so and so  on now of course i'm the last person to  say that veganism has no history of  terrorism whatsoever  i've discussed many strange examples  uh on my channel however  you know it's fair to say that the  in-cell movement  in cells the whole political discourse  around in cells would not exist  if they had not started killing people  right  whereas veganism has not been tainted in  this way it's not thought of in this way  yet  now those of you have been in the vegan  movement for five years or ten  years you might remember there was one  news story that came out of france this  is now closer to 10 years ago from  memory i'd  yeah it's  nine years ago something like that there  was one news story in france of parents  who  malnourished their own baby  and social services got involved the  parents were vegan now i remember  responding to this on my blog  before i even had a youtube channel and  i pointed out that very few of the  journalists commenting on this had even  read the judge's decision which i read  in french my french was not great but i  could still i could still read and  understand that in french and i remember  quoting that and talking about it on my  blog before i had a youtube channel so  only nine years ago  um that was one case  of what i would presume would be one  pair of very eccentric hippie parents  who were malnourishing their child and  the judge himself said  a vegetarian diet is not on trial here  really meaning a vegan diet is not on  trial here the judge probably didn't  know the difference the nutritional  adequacy of a vegan diet is not each  other this is just about  two parents who happen to be incompetent  irresponsible and and how we deal with  that as a society how we deal with that  as a legal system as a child care system  you know so and so forth but i've got to  tell you i mean for at least five years  but probably it's more like 10 years  that one case that went to court  and what the press said about it it  created a cloud over veganism not just  in france  but in america like to my knowledge  around the world maybe it wasn't that  influential in india or china i don't  know but you know that this this one  case and those aren't those aren't  people who decide to become violent so  when you look at a phenomena like the  incel phenomena  um  to my knowledge there were really just  two  in cell killers know what  maybe i can think of a third  but anyway two  there were two instances that were  really covered in the press that really  you know got tremendous attention  publicly both in the united states of  america of guys who publicly and  directly identified as in-cell killers  it's people killing for this movement  killing for this ideology killing due to  this kind of  social analysis or or complaints you  know it's  based it's not based on a complaint that  they personally as individuals can't get  laid it's based on an analysis of our  society and a claim that society has to  change to suit them you know i mean it  is in this sense a political movement  it's not a religious movement you know  it is a political movement even if it's  a political movement we all despise  um  but it's a political movement  whose prominence and political  significance has entirely relied on the  massacre  now this is challenging we're thinking  about  many different angles for many different  reasons  uh  so you know one of the most notorious  was this guy who was obviously mentally  [ __ ] in toronto the the one in  california  he also he was he was diagnosed as  having autism  so  you know in case you don't know autism  is a form of mental retardation so  definitionally this person is is  mentally [ __ ]  uh the guy in toronto uh you can just  watch the police interviewing him and  you can come to your own conclusion of  whether or not you would include him in  your definition of mentally [ __ ] i  am telling you i would and i just sorry  if you if you're really doubting that  you know i mean  fair enough in a sense who gets to  define who's mentally attack [ __ ]  who doesn't  well  what if you had been in grade school  with this guy what if you had what if he  had been with you in grade six what if  he had been with you in math class now  i wasn't the best student to match  myself in great sex you know  but you know i mean what my teachers  said to me again again many of them were  furious with me was look you're too  smart for this you're brilliant you're  gifted you're one of the best students  but i can't motivate you to care about  math like you're sloppy and you don't  care you're not you're not trying harder  completely true i i didn't i didn't care  about doing well in math in grade school  but you know there were other kids the  teachers didn't get angry with  because i mean i was i was intelligent  and i just didn't care i wasn't trying  hard you know whatever you want to stay  with me  there were kids where the whole tone of  discourse or the teacher was totally  different like oh  oh we got to bring in a specialist oh we  got to help this kid oh this kid can't  do math and it's on it's on a whole  different level you know what this is  actually mental retardation this is  actually a learning disability or  impairment and they don't the teachers  don't anger those kids there's no point  yelling at them and you know at least at  my school they'd call in someone you  know they were and they were different  i have specific memories of this for my  own childhood you may not remember your  childhood that precisely but my point is  if you look at these guys and even just  look at film clips of them talking into  the camera i said that police  interrogation i think is very telling  and then you imagine what if i had been  in school with this guy in grade six  you know well maybe he wouldn't have  been in the same classroom as you would  all or maybe you acknowledge this would  be one of the quote-unquote special  needs kids this is someone who who would  need that kind of okay  this is my point  we're all living through this period of  time of phony optimism  about non-violence in politics right oh  we're all so optimistic that we're gonna  end global warming by having physically  attractive young women in bikinis you  know holding up a sign on a sidewalk  this this is how history is made guys  this is going to change the fate of  nations this is going to change the  political priorities in our leaders you  know boris johnson is sitting there  going  damn that's a good-looking woman in a  bikini holding up a sign i think  i think i should make fur illegal  this is what you think and all those  good-looking women in bikinis who called  for the end of the war in afghanistan  and i'm using this broadly to indicate  all the ridiculous things people do in  the name of non-violence and street  activism it isn't all good-looking women  in bikinis but there's there's plenty of  that to go around oh oh how effective  was that after just 19 and a half years  you know the women in bikinis had their  way the non-violent street protesters  the pedestal activism all this [ __ ]  all this uh hand-wringing and heart  bleeding all this oh gee after after 19  and a half years you ended the war in  afghanistan  and look how it ended and look what a  better place the world is happening oh  gee you got your way and you know look  guys  in case you don't know a uh long time  viewer of the channel he may or may not  be here now but um  uh oliver uh who also has his own  youtube channel oliver shields has his  own youtube channel which i support i  share links to periodically he said to  me just in passing a few days ago he  said oh you know how much has the  philosophy of isolazard changed in six  years  you know and i don't know how he took it  but i said to him from my perspective i  was being warmed and i said look look  dude you know  like if anyone knows you know he could  give an interview about how much my  political philosophy has changed in six  years because he's been watching the  youtube channel for at least five years  i know five or six years it's like dude  you know you know all my views have  changed well look i mean i was there um  i'm forgetting if it was during the year  2001 or just at the beginning of 2002  but i marched in the anti-war protests  at that time so again i just forgot you  know it's september 11 2001 and then  october november december i would guess  it was just over the line into  into 2002 but there were there were  peace protests at that time non-violent  peace protests that set records for many  cities around the world it was the the  largest piece the largest protest of any  kind largest street protest largest  political demonstration they'd ever had  in the history of western world and i  think those records still stand i mean  like you know here we are  more than 20 years later  and there hasn't been a bigger protest  there were people saying hey we don't  want to invade afghanistan we don't want  to  invade iraq no i've changed  i mean you know the man i am today  i would have i would have signed up to  join the army i sit though including my  ignorance like the other problem is  don't worry this is just a depression if  you really understand how stupid george  w bush was uh are you willing to be in  an army  under the command of george w bush  that's a very difficult question and it  probably wouldn't have been the american  army i probably would have joined the  french army or the british army i would  have joined some other army uh and gone  to fight where you don't distrust your  leadership and by the way long story  short i do blame george w bush the  stupidity of george w bush and barack  obama that's why those wars weren't  there they did all right but here's my  point  consider consider the political efficacy  of just two men of just two men who  engaged in massacres  and what they've done for the incredibly  unpopular in cell movement the the  political significance in our times of  fiance movement consider the efficacy of  uh  the unabomber and as again with all  humility he said look nobody would have  ever taken an interest in his philosophy  nobody would have ever taken interest in  what he has to say politically if he  hadn't started killing people okay so  you look at that and then you look at  the anti-war movement and look at any  other example the there's a kind of  pro-solar power movement you guys have  probably seen it there are any number of  kind of peaceful street protest based  movements there's an anti-fur movement  there's a pro vegan  i don't feel it so much right now  because the type of people who would  engage in terrorism don't talk to me  anymore they know i'm anti-terrorism  like in this sense i'm anti-violence and  i'm trying to extricate uh political  movements like veganism like you know i  want veganism to be a legitimate  democratic movement in my opinion the  same way the gay rights movement was now  look i don't know can you gu maybe there  were some gay rights terrorists like i  legitimately do not remember anyone  engaging in a massacre in the name of  gay rights it would be understandable  frankly like gay rights is it's still  this day in muslim countries for example  but in some christian status homosexuals  is so bad like you could like i could  understand gay people getting to that  limit where they really want to engage  in terrorism but you know i say again  and again look if we're really going to  accomplish something in veganism it has  to be kind of democratically legitimate  it has to be scientifically legitimate  like there are different kinds of  legitimacy that we really  you know we really need to build up that  basis and i also talk a lot about the  life of a creative artist the way in  which we have to do things that are  really creative and really entertaining  we have to make our own bambi we have to  make our own animated movie that gets  this message across to adults and  children that parents and children watch  a movie that makes the case there are a  lot of things we have to do  in my opinion and in terms of my  argument you know  and i you know even in countries that  don't have democracy like if you talk  about communist china or something  to think the path of violence is the way  to promote veganism within communist  china i i i'm just being honest you it  seems to be fundamentally stupid so i  just say in terms of how i feel about  this issue now for many years  other vegans have known that i'm  anti-terrorism and anti-violence i don't  hear from those people anymore  but when i first started the the youtube  channel i did feel it because i did hear  from those people  and i felt like we were sitting on a  powder keg i felt like we were sitting  on a time bomb where it's like well the  clock is ticking  and sooner or later in the same way that  one person shapes the public perception  of incels that you have an in-cell  killer  that gets this into the headline so on  in the same way like the clock is  ticking and then there's going to be a  vegan killer you know and then  everyone's going to see vegans this way  at least for five years  maybe 10 years maybe 100 years you know  where the meaning of veganism  politically will be changed forever by  the violent act of just one man  uh now some of you remember there was a  guy was it in hungary or was it in the  ukraine there was one guy in eastern  europe someone in the comments will  remember there was one guy and he took  people hostage on a bus  so he didn't kill anyone  but that was that was close and he  demanded on the bus he demanded that the  prime minister or president of that  country make a statement in support of a  veganism and then he let the hostages go  on the bus so some of you will remember  that i'm sorry i apologize  i'm remembering that as if that were  ukraine but maybe i just have ukraine on  the brain uh because ukraine's in the  news so much but somewhere in eastern  europe that and it wasn't russia i don't  i don't think in russia they would have  tolerated that and you know the guy  ended up in jail and that that was in  the newspaper headlines briefly and that  and then disappeared  uh well  you know what if the next time what if  it's someone who does exactly what gary  yourofsky encouraged vegans to do and  i've played that clip a million times  where he was talking about uh holding  holding people  so when the audience says sounds like  chechnya wasn't judging  um  okay you know  uh  in cells are a movement  nobody sympathizes with  nobody thinks their perspective  matters nobody thinks they have  something positive to contribute to the  reform of our society put it that way to  political progress or the political  transformation of our society in future  not even one percent of the population  would agree with themselves like if you  tried to set out the incel manifesto and  then poll people say how much do you do  you agree with this and you know we live  in a society where  you know more than one percent of people  agree with sharia law  okay more than one percent of people  agree with hardcore catholic and  christian notions about what's you know  there are a lot of unpopular  philosophies that pull in more than one  percent okay so  again i think if you were honest with  yourself if you set out a vegan  manifesto that was really honest  about the world vegans want to live in  no more pet dogs  no more pet cats no more hot dogs no  more hamburgers right  it's not just you know if you pull just  on the issue of fur coats  more than one percent of people say okay  you know what we can do with it four  coats how about leather basketball shoes  you you want to go to new york city and  pull people and say yeah we're going to  make it illegal  for you to ever wear or own nike air  force ones again to ever wear leather  basketball shoes leather high heels  leather purses  are if you actually spell out for people  what  a vegan society is gonna mean vegan  legal reforms are gonna mean it's less  than one percent right fewer than one  percent of people  would support those reforms so you see  there's something there's something  comparable here but this totally  unpopular totally despicable  political movement in cells and look let  me just say a little bit more about  despicable  um  there was a time  when people responded to  homosexuals  with  horror with revulsion  and this was really even encouraged  you know these people were regarded as  disgusting you know and that they made  your skin crawl just to talk just to  have them on the news and so on and  there was a process  and look i mean i i do think that partly  just reflects the culture we had on  television and radio and movies before  that now i i'd say this also still to  this day it's very rare to see someone  with a disability on on on camera at all  and it's especially rare to see someone  with a facially visible  disability like if there's someone in a  in a wheelchair they still look like a  movie star from the waist up you know  and  this just comes up in different contexts  conversation with my girlfriend and  stuff you know people don't know what  it's like to have a face-to-face  conversation with someone whose face is  really kind of ugly and malformed maybe  they're twitching maybe they have other  problems because they really grow up  watching television where the ugly  people like the actors who play the ugly  role on television they're they're plain  but they're fundamentally good-looking  healthy people and you don't know what  it's like to spend time around you know  really  um really hideous people i'm just saying  like that's something you used to and  you know if you actually get involved in  humanitarian work if you get involved  with caring for the sick and the  downtrodden the poor if you actually  i've described this before  being in cambodia for me and for the  first time having a conversation with  someone whose face was caved in by a  bomb who's got a seriously deformed face  uh people who are you know horribly uh  mangled by bullets and bombs and you  know you get used to it and the good  news is you really do i had a co-worker  he had a deformed face uh just due to a  type of birthmark it was just a birth  abnormality and i got used to it quick  i'm just telling you honestly maybe the  third day i was at work he looked  totally normal to me  you know like the first day the first  time you were like you're just not used  to looking at someone's okay well look  you know what we had to [ __ ] grow up  as a society we had to really accept gay  people as normal and you know there was  a there's a little bit of push and pull  on both sides there but you know yeah  talking to an openly effeminate gay man  a gay man who doesn't try to act  straight and seeing that on tv listening  them as a news broadcaster or whatever  other seeing them interviewed on the  news hearing and caring about the  perspective of of gay people and having  a kind of mature response to how these  people talk and act and not demanding  that they live up to our our  expectations for what's normal so i i  feel within my lifetime i'm in my  mid-40s by the way i've seen that change  in the western world where where gay  people went from being pariahs to use a  loaded term to really being accepted  even by their critics like there's a  level on which it's not cool anymore to  be freaked out or disgusted  by gay people and their appearance and  their behavior you accept yeah you know  and by the way i'm not claiming all gay  men are effeminate i know there's all  kinds of ways to be gay but you know  yeah obviously you know the real  conflict is with gay men who in their  appearance or behavior are very  obviously not straight or very obviously  not behaving the way we would we would  expect a straight person to so that's  why i'm mentioning effeminate gay men  specifically obviously with lesbians  we could repeat this all this course you  know some women you can't even tell that  you can know a woman for years just  mention she's a lesbian you can't tell  but there are some women in the first  day you meet them you you know you know  same with vegans by the way you cannot  know  and there are some people from the first  day you meet them you know they're vegan  you know  so i'm just saying this kind of  revulsion this kind of judgment  it's not  it's not built into the equation it's  not an automatic or default like there  isn't a cause and effect relationship  that exists uh like an equation in  physics you know it's established and  remains the same forever and ever  um  you know instead on the contrary  uh how we react to these things  yeah it's culturally conditioned but it  also reflects a kind of moral commitment  on our part right  but yeah when you look in the faces of  these incels right you feel a kind of  revulsion like even on youtube  it's not just that their ideology is  despicable and revolting  they  are despicable and revolting these are  exactly the people we want to ignore and  don't want to listen to and sorry  it's very rare writing anything down but  i have a few points i want to go over  here  um  lurking behind this you know to a  massive extent  uh  some interesting comments coming in so  i'll just disagree micah wright says  welcome to the audience mike i don't  remember being here before uh micah says  in cell uh  incels mostly result from inherent  issues with with hookup cultures uh  insults see dating as a game or a  challenge to overcome rather than  organic means by which to learn who  someone is the issue with hookup culture  is that it's inherently shallow um  [Music]  okay so i'm taking a totally different  approach here like i'm not saying that  what you've just said is is false or  totally irrelevant or something but just  notice the way i'm approaching this the  way in which it's it's different  i saw a youtube channel almost at random  the other day i was searching for  something and i ended up seeing this  youtube channel  and  this guy is six foot four  and he considers himself ugly  he claims his analysis of his situation  is that he is an in-cell oh sorry and i  should clarify that it's not that he's  an insult it's just that no women want  him i'll say why not he can't get laid  he can't get a girlfriend he can't have  anyone he claims  that it's because he has an ugly face  and interestingly his cross the bear and  one of the reasons he created his  youtube channel was he was complaining  that the incels all think that height is  is the reason why they calculate like  they say oh our society's prejudiced  against short men short mankind he said  well he's six foot four  and he's saying no the reality is just  that he has an ugly face and that's  enough to ruin your life  that uh  oh  get rid of this  sponge so the sponge was kind of  sticking out inside my head  um  so he was making the argument that no  being tall isn't enough he's tall and he  still has all these problems and the  reason why i didn't call him an insult  was hilariously this guy had a turning  point in his life where he rejected  in-cell ideology and he instead embraced  quote-unquote black pill ideology and he  he said look he really feels that that  as a philosophy the in cells are wrong  and that the reality is that he is just  a guy who's too ugly to get laid now i  could show you this guy's picture right  now i chose you and it's he doesn't have  an ugly face he does not  it is 100 a self-justification and a  delusion for him to think it's because  he has an ugly face and i'm not claiming  nobody is in that situation i saw a  youtube channel really at random about a  week ago  and it's just very rare to see this it  was a guy who had a hideously deformed  face really like he one of his eyeballs  was down where the middle of my  cheekbone is his whole face he was just  born that way it's not his fault and it  was obvious i mean he'd had  reconstructive surgery when he was a  baby so obviously his face had been even  worse and surgeons had tried to make it  work but i mean that guy you know that  guy had a had a horrifying face not his  fault it's not ethical he was born with  a really deformed face there are some  people for whom you say well look you  know it's it's your face your face is  terrifying to people so obviously it's  going to be really hard for you to have  a relationship that that exists i'm  saying this particular guy  who is six foot four  if you click on any of these videos say  no the problem isn't  that you're ugly it's not that you have  an ugly face  the problem is that you're stupid  right  and i see the whole incel discourse the  whole thing  as a cope  for dealing with stupidity  and even outright retardation that a lot  of these people are mentally disabled  and that's why women don't want them and  that's why they can't speak in complete  sentences the whole discourse about  social skills  is a cope  right  so i'll just digress on this briefly but  i think this is useful and you know uh  uh  useful for michael wright or many people  in the audience and you again micah i'm  not saying like i'm not saying what  you're saying i'm not um  rejecting or even disagreeing with what  you're saying i'm emphasizing the extent  to which my my approach is different  from yours but some aspects of the the  problem would be elucidated by would be  you know explained by uh the approach  you're taking but i have a very  different  uh analytical approach  um  all right sorry i have a lot to say it's  a question of what order i'm gonna say  um  self-pity  and being self-pitying  you know  unfortunately in english these are  really used as  insults  you denigrate someone or you dismiss  what they have to say by reproaching  them  for being self-pitied i mean in in  english  if you say to someone you're just  feeling sorry for yourself  you know  it totally dismisses what it means that  what they're saying is of no reality  there's no significance it shouldn't but  it does that's our culture and that's  our that's our language uh if you  characterize anyone whether it's a  politician or a celebrity or your own  friend or relative if you say to them  you are self-pity  it dismisses them if they tell you about  their problems and then you say what  you've just said to me is self-pity it  dismisses the substance of of what they  say and i think self-pity  there are really at least two  very different concepts  that are masked and misrepresented by  our language by our by our cultural  tradition  you know  what could be more important and what  could be more meaningful  in instigating  personal and even political change than  self-pity then sitting down and feeling  sorry for yourself sitting down and  reflecting  on how terrible your situation is in  life i would just point out  somebody else feeling sorry for you can  never  can never be a substitute for that  like i  you know sorry my relationship with my  mom is not that close  but  back when i was in university  there's no way my mother  feeling sorry for me  can have the effect or significance of  me sitting down and feeling sorry for  myself like here i am in university the  university is terrible the quality of  education is terrible the other students  i'm in class with are terrible my  professors are terrible i have no hope  for the future i have no plans for the  future no possible career  in front of me  um  like you know it was a really bleak  really terrible time in my life  uh my mom didn't feel sorry for me she  didn't understand she wasn't capable of  understanding and if i tried to talk  about these things though which i i  didn't do but once in a while she'd kind  of start a conversation with me on her  own terms it wasn't me richard she she  talked to me about what going to  university was like in the 1960s  okay like you know and she's like oh  well you know when i was in university  and i was writing articles for the  newspaper and i was doing this that she  you know i have a youtube video on this  channel of my mom talking about her time  in university so in case if you want to  hear her perspective about how wonderful  her time in university was now i can  tell you something else i know my mom  real well  she learned  nothing while she was in university she  she came out of university just as  ignorant as she went in  you know the the the level of erudition  my mother had by the end of her  university education it was zero so she  might have had a lot of fun in uh in  going to university in the 1960s  everything was so different you know  significant universe near society and  what kind of job you could leave doing  everything else and whether or not you  can even get employed everything's  different okay  you know i just say this is a good  example because  who else could you have in your life  who's gonna feel sorry for you now i  wasn't the situation my mother never  filtered me but like in theory you can  imagine a parallel reality where my  mother comes to me and says look  i can see you really suffer i can see  you're really down like there must be  something really wrong with your  situation at university and i feel bad  about you and let's talk about  what you're going to do about it what  you can do to change it  with my mother this never happened  never and i hope i hope some of you have  mothers who are that uh that involved in  your in your in your life okay  um  so gonna continue here so we have a  comment from a guy named named your  brain  uh don't remember you  uh  you know i i'm sorry but you know i  don't know if you got the hint but you  can't really come into my live stream  and expect me to completely change the  topic of the video so i mean i'm not i'm  not offended  but you know a lot of people are  interested in a lot of different topics  everyone laughed out loud once uh in the  middle of a live stream on some totally  different subject someone came in and  said hey why don't you make any videos  talking about cat ownership talking  about  owning cats as pets i think everyone in  the arts is laughing they're like oh my  god he's he's already made videos about  that okay  um  you know uh  you know i mean again i wasn't offended  it was like guys we're talk i forgot we  were talking we're talking about joe  biden and the war in china or something  we're doing with some totally different  thing but you know yes someone here is  laughing again saying haha i remember  that live stream so again i'm not  offended i'm not angry but you know the  audience is welcome to contribute to the  discussion and to to state opinions that  are the opposite of mind that are on  topic  but if someone is talking about  something that's that's that's totally  unrelated i'm i'm probably just going to  ignore it i mean there's there's really  just no point so you know i've said many  times you know sympathy is an analytical  tool  and i'd ask you to sympathize my  position i don't know if you've ever  been a broadcaster and if you've ever  done a live stream but you know  it's just ridiculous to come into a  conversation and ask me to talk with  something totally unrelated even if it  is something that interested me i mean  like i'm interested in uh the the  politics and ethics of pet ownership and  uh castrating cats and so on and so  forth now  you know uh  john venus  i have made videos about in the past and  you can go and watch the videos i've  made criticizing john venus uh  leo venus his brother  is really just not that interesting to  me i've got to say but if you want to  know what i think about that um maybe  you'll find that entertaining and  interesting and and maybe you won't but  no i'm not gonna even if it is a topic  that really interests me and you know by  the way and something that's related to  this i'm very interested in the critique  of  antidepressants  and i recently had an offer to interview  i'd assume by skype or something  somewhere to do an interview with peter  bregen one of the most famous doctors  socrates there are other interests i  have and someone could raise it here and  said well someone could say well to what  extent do you think the in-cell  phenomenon is linked to or related to  the fact like 20 of people are on  mind-altering mood-altering drugs  great question  but i'm not gonna derail this video and  get into critique of of antidepressants  even though that does interest me i mean  i might mention it like this briefly oh  yeah there's oh yeah that's all the  interesting point now  i'm also very interested in the critique  of marijuana which i think will get  mentioned in this video  i'm not gonna derail the conversation  even if someone donates twenty dollars  in the in the chat so okay let's just  stop and and get into the critique of  the politics of legalization of  marijuana or something these are  totally good questions so you know i ask  you to sympathize and if you were in my  position if you just imagine that you're  in my position and you're you know  the the audience is welcome to  participate in the conversation but i am  leading the conversation and you got to  follow my lead if you want to  participate given that we've paused to  address methodology if you guys have a  second hit the thumbs up uh it helps  more people discover the video  while it's broadcasting elsewhere people  join the conversation while what's going  on and then after the video was wrapped  you know uh it'll help more people  discover it when it's  you know gathering dust on the internet  for 100 years thereafter but we know of  37 people in there it would be great if  we had 37 thumbs up uh and as they say  it does it does actively promote the  video uh to uh to a greater extent  okay um  when you think about the meaning of the  term  self-pity  what it means to be  self-pitying  i think there are two very different  ideas  that are  um misrepresented as one and the same in  our language and cultural tradition  because  one element of being self-pitying with  this is sitting down and really  confronting  and really reflecting on the extent to  which you are sad  and then engaging in an analysis of why  you're sad and what you're gonna do  about it and i'm just being real with  you  when i say i don't think anyone else can  do that for you you know  uh not even your mom  not your best friend not your therapist  i don't think there's anyone who can  really help you with that  um  i do think probably many people  can inaudib say to you in like one  sentence like dude you're really you're  really i can see you're really messed up  like messed up by this or you're messed  like someone can say to you in one sense  man i can see you're really unhappy  about your job  someone could say to you in one sentence  man i can see you're really unhappy  about your marriage they can say that  and that can lead you to reflect it can  it can instigate this because you may be  kidding yourself you may think you're  happy with your job you think you're  happy with your career you think you're  happy with your marriage and that could  even be the breaking point where you  then sit down and engage in in self-pity  and reflection but i don't think anyone  else can feel sorry for you  in that in that way but for many of us  there's a shocking moment of discovery  maybe because you you've made a whole  series of compromises with your job like  okay i guess i can tolerate this oh okay  i guess it gets worse and worse  and you're you're telling yourself it's  okay  very common in commitment relationships  you have a boyfriend a girlfriend  husband or wife and uh they are treating  you worse and worse or something about  how you relate to each other and the  relationship is getting worse and worse  but you compromise and you tell yourself  you're okay with it you tell yourself  everything's fine and actually you're  miserable and you're cracking up  and you you at some point have to stop  and reflect on it now  i think this also points to the  importance of self-pity because if in  this sense if you were more  self-committing in this positive  constructive analytical sense if you had  been reflecting on what was wrong with  your job what's wrong with your  relationship  and all those stages leading up to it  right you wouldn't kind of reach that  breaking point you know and probably you  would have made different  decisions along the way now obviously i  don't think i have to go into this at  depth everything i've just said is very  true about the struggles of of incels  now  and it can lead to really hard  admissions  to oneself there are things you have to  admit to yourself can be hard to admit  hard to reflect on  so i described at length this youtube  channel from a guy who's six foot four  and he thinks the reason why women won't  talk to him why women won't date him why  women won't fall in love with them or  won't say them he thinks the reason is  because his face is ugly  and he's wrong i mean if you just watch  the video dude you don't have an ugly  face  but just listening to him talk  you're sitting there thinking  something's really wrong with this guy  now i don't i don't know him if i'd  actually gone to school with him or you  know if i'd been in the classroom with  him i would have a better sense but like  this guy i mean if he is not  mentally [ __ ] you know maybe he's a  drug addict some people have these  really strange behaviors their ability  to speak and make eye contact and  just because of years of drug addiction  can totally explain that maybe he's a  video game addict  a lot of these guys they've made  themselves [ __ ]  through years of smoking marijuana and  playing video games i'm using marijuana  intentionally of course you can also  destroy your life with methamphetamine  heroin cocaine you can use harder drugs  and have worse of course but you know  most people don't want to admit the  extent to which it's marijuana i  remember an interview with a uh  i think he was a rapper who had formerly  been a drug dealer  and i remember he said that when he got  involved in drug dealing he thought he  was going to be with these  dangerous exciting self-disciplined men  of action like he had this idea of who  his colleagues would be in organized  crime and uh  you know the reality was he found him he  found himself  sitting on a couch with a bunch of lazy  guys who were playing nba jam for eight  hours a day but the reality was these  guys would sit in a house on a couch  playing nba jam playing this video game  again and again  and then every so often someone knocks  at the door and shows up and they hand  over a plastic bag or whatever you know  that was the reality that being a drug  dealer wasn't exciting it wasn't uh what  takes you to let them believe but my  point is you know  if you spend five years  playing video games and smoking  marijuana whether it's eight hours a day  or four hours day it's with your spare  time  it changes who you are it has these  effects even if you were not born  mentally disabled to begin with these  have you know cumulative effects and  guys you know again so my point is not  here to humble brag and it's not the  outright brag either i think you all  know  like if i gain 20 pounds of body fat  there will still be women who are into  me and there still will be 10 years from  now too  just because i'm intelligent like  reciprocally nobody wants to deal with  what a huge advantage it is to just be  intelligent and well spoken and let's  keep it all the way real english is the  only language i can do this in right  i can criticize myself it can be a  subject for another video i could have  become fluent in any one of the other  languages i studied it's a long list of  languages but i'm not  english is the only but  at least i can speak my first language  well and a lot of these people they  can't and i'm just being real with you  when you see their youtube channel or  whatever you know i don't know why like  i can't look at this guy's youtube  channel and diagnose him and so the  reason why you can't speak in complete  sentences is this but the basic reality  is english is your first language and  you can't speak in complete sentences  you can't communicate well in your own  first language right  what woman will be interested in that  switch the genders around  it's the same with women and men if you  meet a woman you're like oh something  something's really wrong with this woman  you know  um you know again i think you guys can  tell i'm not dismissing the fact that  some people do have an ugly face i'm not  dismissing the fact that some people do  have an unattractive body but i'm saying  that this whole discourse is a massive  cope  for the extent to which people don't  want to look in the mirror and recognize  that they're stupid recognize that  they're ignorant and recognize that  their stupidity and ignorance is in  large part a result of their laziness  you know well you spent your whole  [ __ ] life watching anime movies and  playing video games and not developing  yourself intellectually news flash [ __ ]  oh  nobody wants to eat lunch with you like  you know before you can fall in love  before you can have sex before you can  build up a more meaningful relationship  like there's a really low threshold are  you an interesting enough person that  people want to go for lunch with you  okay and again it doesn't matter if i'm  10 years older and 20 pounds fatter than  i am right now  all kinds of women want to go to lunch  with me including women who maybe like  for the first time that day that's been  my experience my whole life when i was  18  what one thing when i was 18 women  thought i was 28 everyone thought i was  way older than i was when i was doing it  nobody thought i was 18. but i was  already old looking at 18. but you know  whether i was 28 or whether i'm 58  women are going to meet me and want to  go up for lunch with me  just because i'm an intellectually  cultivated interesting person and plenty  of those women like it's subjective  plenty of them don't think i'm  attractive some women think i'm  attracted whether it's two percent of  women or what i i have no delusions i'm  on no ego trip that way but like  uh  i think i think we at least recognize  that there's a problem with the way  young women are raised in america and we  don't recognize that it's a problem with  young men  i heard an interview i know i've  mentioned this on youtube channel before  but it was like  six years ago i heard an interview with  a woman who grew up in the czech  republic  under communism  um so again czechoslovakia has changed  really but she grew up as a czech uh  under under communism and then uh  she at one point somehow she escaped to  the united states of america and she  worked as a model and then got work as  an actress you know  and she said you know the difference is  for her growing up everyone acknowledged  she was a beautiful woman  nobody ever told her  that it was adequate for her to be  a beautiful woman no one ever told this  is all you need to get by in life like  this is enough  everyone told her look you're a  beautiful woman  you better sit down and hit the books  and get a degree in chemistry i forget  what she studied she said some boring  like look you gotta work hard you've got  to develop yourself intellectually  academically you've got to be prepared  to kind of shoulder your burden in  society and have a good job whatever and  she said the minute she got to america  now admittedly when she was in america  she was involved with modeling and  acting she was involved in a certain  subculture within america but as soon as  she got to america she was in a culture  where apparently every beautiful young  woman was told  this is it  you just need to focus on you know your  hair your makeup getting a bra that fits  you right learning to walk in high heels  a lot of women when they're growing up  that's what they're told you're  beautiful you've got to practice how to  walk how to walk in a sexy way so you  don't fall over in high heels no but  nobody's born no one kind of walk in  high heels that's an art form these  women have to cultivate so nobody's born  knowing how to do  lipstick i mean these things are learned  you know where they're they're told you  know from a very early age  again and again that your intellectual  cultivation doesn't matter and i've met  so many people including ugly people  some people were born and raised like  and it's never occurred to them that  this could be or should be  a priority in their lives now that side  of our culture has in the past of our  time gotten so toxic  it's got it's become so reformative it's  become such a source of shame and  ridicule the bimbo ification  of every good-looking young woman you  know what i mean  um  that they're encouraged to become bimbos  it's gotten so extreme that i do think  now there's a little bit of a sense of  the pendulum swinging to the other side  or people are starting to  mentate the possibility  that really it's important to encourage  young women beautiful or ugly but it's  an extra problem with with women who are  beautiful  really they need encouragement to be  dedicated self-disciplined develop  themselves intellectually well i've got  to tell you something you know like  let's get into some specific  subcultures did you grow up around  hispanic people  i did  i did i remember oh sorry remember  particular guys i went through went  through school with i knew hispanic guys  and all their family ever encouraged  them to do was play football  now so to be fair this is not the only  subclasses like this i knew an irish guy  and um  you know the only choice in his family  uh the only like option he was given was  whether he was going to play soccer  which they call football in europe  whether he was going to play soccer or  whether he was going to play rugby  that was a big deal  and he was completely expected to devote  his life to either soccer or  you know now there are a few other  sports in ireland he could have been  hurtling or something but you know um  there are definitely white australians  where as young men  like this is it  like the the point of school  is to participate in sports teams and  like oh well you weren't good enough to  make the football team maybe you can do  wrestling maybe you can just we're like  that's all the parents are interested  that's all they they call to me  um  you know i'm just gonna be honest the  the few black friends i knew of the few  black friends i had in toronto people  they were black people who were in a  state of rebellion against that you know  what i mean they were in no way victims  of that  that cultural expectation but obviously  i mean the high school i graduated from  uh we had black students  i mean being on the basketball team that  was it  there was nothing else there was playing  basketball there was watching basketball  on tv and there was playing video games  related to basketball and that was it  and nobody questioned it and there was  no pressure on them and it was openly  regarded that that  what they did in their school courses  was a kind of joke it was a kind of  distraction none of them thought it was  important for them to learn to speak  french just give you an example they  would laugh they'd laugh in your face  say oh you think i'm going to speak  french you think i'm ever going to use  this the minute i finish high school no  obviously no concept of learning algebra  it's very hard to convince a young  person that learning math is important  none again it's not all black people in  toronto i knew black people who were  part of the  kind of living in a state of revolt  against that where they were like no  they really wanted to be an intellectual  they want to develop themselves  i i personally have not known hispanic  people of that character but obviously  they exist they're out there hispanic  people who reject that but you know  my point is this is so ubiquitous  that it's largely invisible to us  and i think this guy this particular  youtuber is six foot four  uh again i don't know to what extent he  might be born  mentally disabled but even so mentally  disabled people can do their most to  develop themselves intellectually like  if if you're autistic do you think being  lazy and playing video games and  watching anime movies is gonna help  like if autism is your problem and  you're just well  maybe you can't develop yourself  intellectually as much as some other  person maybe both the amount you can  develop and the way in which you can  develop but both qualitatively and  quantitatively it's different or it's  limited but still you can do the utmost  for you like you can be the best you can  be  intellectually and that's going to make  a positive difference in every part of  your life and it's going to lead to  relationships with other people men  women or whatever it's going to lead to  relationships other people that are  actually based on  intellectual  admiration for you respect for you  rather than just carnal lust for your  body i mean either you got that or you  or you don't you know but you know as i  say like i'm aware some women who  approach me in life some women who try  to try to initiate relationships with me  sometimes it is carlos sometimes i am  their type and it click and that's it  and you can tell that's that's what's  going on but there are also women  throughout my life who've approached me  again normally if they want to go for  lunch with you you're like  normally doesn't start with uh proposals  of marriage but you know where they're  interested in you they find interesting  and and my assessment my belief is they  don't think i'm attractive they're not  they're not that carnally interested in  me from the rest of me otherwise so i  don't have to digress on this uh at any  length but you know um  uh  okay so someone someone is saying fix  the audio but what was it was it bad for  five seconds or what  not much i can do with this hand  all right i'm gonna  uh i'm gonna click this looks like using  the right the right microphone i'm gonna  click here  you should have heard about four clicks  there on the mic and if you didn't it's  using the wrong microphone but anyway  look guys all right  sorry i mean it's probably just the  internet that went out for a second  probably someone in this building  started playing uh  started playing with him oh well it's  too bad uh look guys sorry but i mean  there's only there's only something to  do so it said that you said crackling  for minutes but a couple minutes is not  that bad i mean  sorry life isn't perfect but it's not  like the whole it looks like most of the  time you guys were uh  you guys were following the phone in the  car session  great comment from chickpeas anime was a  mistake  [Laughter]  interesting criticism from michael  harvey in the audience michael harvey  says eisel and the general vegan crowd  really hate jordan peterson but he does  a much better job at warning young men  about becoming an incel and  practicing stoicism  cleaning your room  i don't uh  i don't think jordan peterson gives you  a working model  for how to live a more meaningful life  i'm just being real  and  jordan peterson does not  present you with a model  for uh  look sorry so i apologize  i had no control over the sound nothing  changed at this end so someone said it  was bad for about eight minutes  but i mean you want me to start the live  stream again like i can  and i you know i hope i can i can just  you know i can cancel and start again  uh but i'm you know i apologize but it's  um  so someone else says it's good nothing  was bad good maybe when people are  listening to it afterwards they're just  gonna they're gonna increase the volume  but i would just assume i mean look i  apologize  uh i i will make a note of it i mean  basically the connection between my  computer and the mic i can change but  i'm using exactly the same connection  that's worked  more than a hundred times like more than  a hundred broadcasts this this  particular usb set up i'm using exactly  the same setup but i do i do worry about  that stuff and you know but normally  what happens  you're you're completely powerless so  yeah but no i i do take that stuff  seriously and i've bought how many  microphones do you have in this  apartment right now four or six  four at least  yeah yeah yeah but i just say we have a  whole we have a whole collection of  microphones i have spent a lot of time  and money trying to get this stuff to  work but i mean ultimately it's a  miracle that this is technologically  possible at all i always said that when  i was in china like look it's amazing i  can i can do this at all but  you know so awesome to do so guys it's  great to have 40 people going live i  know a lot of youtube channels have a  much larger audience that don't get as  many people when they're live streaming  i've seen somewhere lately both vegan  and non-vegan so i do appreciate you  being here if you have a second if you  could hit the thumbs up button um i'd  appreciate that partly just because it  helps more people discover the discover  the broadcast while it's happening and  i'll help more people discover it later  my lighting has gotten worse but that's  okay  um  [Music]  okay so i'm  i'm happy to respond any of this stuff  and i i do think it's  i do think it's it's related  other people are commenting on you know  the stupidity of of jordan peterson okay  but let's let's  narrow this down so that it's more  relevant to this conversation i've made  if you don't know i've made videos that  reach more than 10 000 people each  criticizing jordan peterson and i'm it's  very meaningful to me i mean if i die  tomorrow the critique of jordan peterson  is actually a significant thing i  accomplished in my life and that i  managed to reach that audience of energy  reach his audience or say it's it's  something i put some energy and effort  into  um  but the claim have been advancing in the  first 55 minutes of this video  is that the obsession with your facial  appearance and your bodily appearance is  a cope  in their terms in the slang terms used  by the incels themselves i'm saying  that's a cope  right  and instead  what what people are coping with  what they're distracting themselves from  what they're rationalizing what they're  making excuses for is their stupidity  their ignorance their immaturity  and again i want to say even the  discourse about social skills  that's also a cope right  so whether or not women find me  interesting  and then after finding me interesting  whether or not they find me attractive  or they can think about themselves being  in a relationship with me right  that doesn't rely on self-confidence  that doesn't rely on social skills  uh  now  sorry i'll use an example i used in the  past  let's say  you're really not a very self-confident  person and you're not a very well-spoken  person  but you go into the theater and you  start organizing and putting on a  performance of shakespeare's hamlet  you do all the organization you're the  director and the producer you're not an  actor let's say  let's say you're you're kind of an  awkward  person you know you don't have great  social skills all right and you involve  people in this project in the past i i  well whatever i can i can give more  details as to why this would be an  interesting or politically significant  you know performance of of shakespeare  well  there are going to be some women  involved in that whether they're in the  audience or actors or the person does  the lighting or doesn't make it there  are going to be some people there and  then huh you know this guy is kind of  interesting this is someone i'd like to  have lunch with you know i'm not  guaranteeing you you're going gonna have  an amazing sex life or you're gonna fall  in love and get married and raise kids  but you are doing something interesting  you are being an interesting person and  even if you're kind of awkward in your  way of speaking you're not you don't  have great social skills that you don't  understand you're sitting around and  talking to people about why  you decided to mount this this  performance of shakespeare what  motivates you this your interpretation  of shakespeare what what you how what  you care about and which how you feel  about this and so on  now  there are limits and by the way i don't  think shakespeare is that meaningful  it can't be anime it can't be cosplay it  can't be video games uh no matter how  erudite your opinion is about  video games about the differences  between the famicom disk system version  of excitebike and the nes version of  excitebike like you know i i can sit  here and give you very sophisticated  opinions about video games but you know  some things don't matter but my point in  choosing shakespeare is to say it  doesn't have to be researching the cure  for cancer  it doesn't have to be the future of  democracy in myanmar but i've quite  intentionally used the democracy in  myanmar as an example in my most recent  video so let's just mention that briefly  what if you did the research what if you  really got involved with a humanitarian  effort and a political effort  you know to achieve democracy in in  myanmar what if you you know what if you  put years into that what if you started  learning one of those languages does it  matter if it's shan  or you know standard burmese itself you  know whether it's one of the minority  languages in myanmar whatever you know  that's interesting  and  you know i'm going to be real with you  this is my experience  i i'm not that good-looking i'm really  not okay  my experience is  women who have never [ __ ] heard of  myanmar before want to go to lunch with  you  like it's not just other women who are  interested in researching the politics  of myanmar and they dream like there  will be women like huh  this is a country i've never heard of  before they know nothing about it they  meet you under whatever circumstance  they hear you talking in an intelligent  way about the politics and history of  myanmar you know and they're like hmm  i'm interested he's interesting that's  someone i want to go to lunch with  whether or not you have sex with them or  fall in love with them or whatever right  you know  there's something really significant  here so this this is branching off from  jordan peterson okay  i think  the commitment to care  about the future of myanmar is actually  an act of rebellion  it's not conformist you're not just  fitting into  the shoes your parents set out for you  to fill or your grandparents said for  you to fill above and beyond and with no  relation to a kind of conservative  conformist conception of society right  you have come up with this idea you have  nothing to do with myanmar you're going  to learn the language you're going to  study history and politics and in your  small way you're going to get involved  you're going to contribute what you can  contribute to that discourse it is  actually a meaningful act  of rebellion  i think this is  the difference from anime  right like what's wrong with just  watching anime on tv like really think  about it what's wrong with just playing  video games well i do think it's partly  because well it's childish  it's conformist you're embracing a form  of entertainment that's just been set  out for you now look i mean putting on  william shakespeare i mean again i've  talked about this in earlier videos  let's say  i feel it's a great example  let's say you are a black teenager  living in  a chicago  and you don't want to be part of the  basketball scene and you don't want to  be part of the drug dealing in king's  scene and you don't want to be part of  the hip-hop scene and you as a black  teenager in chicago decide what you want  to do is put on a performance  of william shakespeare any of the plays  could be hamlet whatever with an  all-black cast  and implicitly this is a way of reaching  out to other young black people in your  community and saying hey look i want to  lead a more meaningful life who's with  me now also there may be other  subversive things there politically like  maybe politically you make this into a  commentary on donald trump or something  like there are ways in which the  performance of shakespeare can be  politicized okay so it's an all black  performance of hamlet i'll just point  out  this isn't just black you could be  japanese and you're in japan you're born  and raised in japan you do an old  japanese performance of hamlet and it's  a commentary you do it as a political  commentary on things in japan it's very  easy to politicize this and for this to  have social significance all right i'm  pointing out that there is a subtle  sense in which this is rebellious in  which it's challenging the status quo  and trying to transform the society  we're a part of and it's it's railing  against the indifference of our society  it's reeling against the phlegmatism of  our society it's challenging the  complacency of our society and that's  what's different from anime and that's  what's different from from playing video  games you know  um  i think this is utterly lacking from  jordan peterson's model of uh of a of a  meaningful life  you know  now  look  so i've read jordan peterson's book we  own his second book or what his second  successful book which we've looked at a  few pages of and it's unbelievably  stupid and terrible  but you know i'm familiar with jordan  peterson's work i've criticized jordan  peterson  i can't sit here and tell you that all  of his advice is bad  i would compare him to a fitness  instructor who just tells you to try  really hard you know  that advice alone if i if i do that i  can start a website i can start taking  my shirt off and i can start filming  myself doing 200 push-ups and saying you  can do 200 push-ups a day too which is  true i think everyone in this audience  can do 200 push-ups who who here has  done 200 push-ups this month  but you could you know you could men and  women it's an attainable goal i can  start the 200 push-ups a day website and  200 push-ups a day challenge and film  myself  and even if all i have to say is hey  try really hard or hey you could try  harder you know  a huge percentage of people will benefit  from that advice even if it's totally  banal you know what i mean  um so like on that level  you know of course i can't say  everything that jordan peterson says is  wrong yeah  people here are yeah wicked energy yeah  i agree you  know however we are setting that this is  damning him with faint braids like we  are setting the standards incredibly low  and i think it's it's very meaningful to  point out that the advice he's giving  it it simply doesn't work for n cells i  mean there is nothing there for young  men to respond to and build on there  isn't the model of a meaningful life and  there certainly is a model of how to  make progress  as an intellectual  and look  again  all right  not everyone can make progress as an  intellectual right some people are so  severely mentally [ __ ] that this  isn't open to them but when we're  talking about people who are  moderately mentally disabled right  there is a question of doing the most  you can do  and the amount the extent to which you  can improve your brain even if you're  somewhat mentally disabled right  is so much greater than the extent to  which you can improve your face or you  can improve your body that's really  limited right  now i'm here tempted to get in talking  about uh kristen lee  you know to branch off i'll i guess  he'll come back to uh to kristen lee in  a minute  so i'm gonna treat this person as  anonymous  a fan of the channel wrote into me  and he is mentally disabled and he  described his situation and i will just  say  he is significantly mentally disabled  he's not just slightly mentally disabled  and he has some kind of social worker  assigned to him some kind of caseworker  talking about a situation and he said  completely matter of factly that he was  just not going to attempt to finish high  school  he was just going to get on with his  life  and i sent him back a passionate and  clearly worded email  saying no  this is the wrong decision you're wrong  and i said look  if you go back to high school two years  from now and you finish high school and  if you go back to high school five years  from now  that will still be really meaningful for  you in your life and i didn't like i  didn't tell him his business i said look  maybe you're right that this year you  can't go back to high school and maybe  not next year you know for all kinds of  different reasons but every year you are  going to get more mature you're going to  get more self this one you're going to  get more focused and maybe just two  years from now you can go back to high  school and you can complete it and  that's going to be so significant in  your life as opposed to and what he was  talking himself into was just that he  would accept  basically living as a janitor for the  rest of life that he was going to get a  really low level of employment that he  could get without going to high school  again because he's aware of his mental  disability now look this guy  i don't know what his limits are but my  point is this is me encouraging him i  said more than that i've said more about  the way in which the challenges of high  school would actually be meaningful and  important  like  you are going to learn things you don't  think you're going to learn by going  through this process in high school  right okay so this guy i obviously it's  just based on his own description  himself i completely accept that he is  really mentally disabled this is a  significant mental disability i'm not  trivializing it i'm not dismissing it  i'm not being like some gym coach who  says everybody can do 200 push-ups or  everyone can bench press 400 pounds you  can't some people aren't going to make  it but like the point is  he can make progress from where he is  today to being a better person in the  future he mean intellectually he may  never be able to do the things i do and  some of the things that are effortless  for me maybe a lot of effort for him  but  i'm still encouraging him right i'm  still encouraging him to do the utmost  and this guy i've alluded to the six  foot four guy and [ __ ] all these  good-looking people who are on youtube  like i'm sorry uh  any any good-looking successful youtuber  male or female you look back at the last  five years their life and you look ahead  of the next five years of their  life you know uh  if they just make the effort to  cultivate themselves intellectually if  they just make the effort like you know  we're all born stupid we're all born  ignorant but this is something you can  change and it's something you can change  that's going to have profoundly positive  consequences for your whole life for  every aspect of your life not just  getting laid not just your sex life not  just who you marry if you want to get  married or settle and not everyone does  but yeah including that you know your  intellectual development is gonna is  gonna pull that along with you now look  um  i already mentioned the particular incel  i was talking about there was six foot  four he doesn't have an ugly face  he has he has a normal face he's a  normal like his face is normal looking  for a guy he has his eyes there's  nothing wrong with it  um  you know  kristen leo is one of my one of my uh  adversaries here on youtube  kristen leo is a youtuber i don't  particularly like i i don't like her  politically i don't like her  intellectually i don't like her  ethically  she claims to be a vegan she buys and  sells leather on her own website  sorry just give an example what i mean  when i say ethically  there's a lot wrong  with kristen leo  her latest video  consists of her admitting  that she has gotten into plastic surgery  now i say admitting because i have no  reason to think that this is her first  experience with this but she's already  now doing botox so  she is about 30 years old she yeah right  she made some videos i think when she  celebrated she went from 29 to 30  talking about the the cusp of the decade  and her her birthday celebration  um  okay  now look i i'm gonna be real with you  for me  personally subjectively  kristen leo is ugly  like to me she's not even playing  i perceive her  subjectively as an ugly person  her experience in life  is of everyone treating her as a  beautiful person she has been involved  in modeling  she has been an airline hostess people  used to say airline stewardess she is  she's still to this day  models  on  instagram and models these clothes and  boots and shoes that she sells and  resells she has this business  but she takes a picture of herself in  the clothes and there's no doubt a very  large part of her youtube viewing  audience is the result of  her  you know presenting herself sometimes in  a bathing suit or been revealing a tire  in these videos you know that her her  physical appearance is part of that so  she is someone in her own society  in her own career she has been treated  as beautiful she's regarded as a  beautiful person  you get to age 29  you get to age 30.  and  she isn't in cell i mean she doesn't  identify with the incel philosophy but  she has made a whole series of of videos  bitterly recriminating on the fact that  like there are no men  really meaning there's no men for her  that men don't want her and the men she  could have she's not interested in  i've been to athens right a lot of guys  in athens watch football a lot of guys  in athens drink beer  like i get it but obviously 99 of them  are not vegan what percentage of people  in athens are vegan if you want just  those three requirements if you want a  man who is vegan  doesn't drink alcohol doesn't watch  football on tv like we're not even  setting a super high intellectual  standing  i'm not gonna ridicule her like you know  i get it it's hard out here for a pimp  that's an old  that's a song i only was the 90s early  2000s remember that song of course  what what what was the the name of the  group they won an oscar for it or some  [ __ ] it was on the center ground  no no no  as i recall they won an academy award  for its its place on a soundtrack and it  was one of the first rap albums to warn  an academy award here's a song  wow so that was the original i guess  i thought it was 3-6 mafia  we did it  no big deal  anyway it's hard out here you know like  uh i get it  so there are results that yeah so  there's more than one that's it there  was more than one version of the song  that's why that is yeah yeah no that's  that's what someone's wrapped something  sort of thing anyway three six mafia put  out a song called it's hard out here for  a pamphlet  that's the most important if there's one  thing you learn from this video there's  one thing you take away from this video  it's obviously the most important thing  this is why i like doing live streams  honestly i like this kind of stuff that  comes up it wouldn't be here if it were  this kind of focused  uh edited video so you look at this  woman kristen leo and i've admitted for  me subjectively she's ugly okay  and you think okay you reach age 29  you're looking ahead to 30. now you're  30 what are you going to do where is it  going to go from here and it does not  occur to her  to develop herself intellectually it  does not occur to her that the type of  men she wants  because she doesn't want any man she  doesn't want any mansion yet  those men  will have intellectual standards and  intellectual expectations that  exclude her  or she's not living up to it that way  all of her time and energy are going  into her body  the clothes she wears like her  appearance in that sense how the outfit  is put together her hair she puts a lot  of time and energy into her into her  hair her makeup and now  as she gets older increasingly plastic  surgery including botox injections you  know  so she just had some procedure done to  her lips  which makes her look like a woman who's  had plastic surgery like from my  perspective that doesn't make you more  attractive makes you less attractive  just because it tells me something about  you about how vain you are and so on you  know  um  now kristen leo is in some ways an  ordinary example  and she's in some ways an extraordinary  example  because this is someone who has earned  her living for many years  coming on youtube and talking about  politics  no i've said already to me  subjectively  kristin is ugly  in some other universe where i was  single or were melissa and i had never  met like where i was totally single  uh  oh  let let's let's crank it up let's say  i've been single for years and some  other kept a single for a long time if  someone asked me because by the way  kristen and i we were way less than six  degrees of separation apart i've known  people who've known kristen um they're  not that many vegans on youtube what if  a friend of mine said to me hey look you  know kristin is down bad she's been  single for years and she's complaining  about it you're single what do you think  about meeting up with kristen  my answer would have nothing to do with  her hair nothing to do with her clothes  nothing to do with her face  you know what i mean nothing  you know the reality is that probably  if kristen leo had tried to develop  herself intellectually just in the past  five years we don't have to go back 20  years just in the past five years if she  had given it a hundred and ten percent  she probably would be somebody i'd be  interested in  and what does it just means you want to  have lunch with them  you think wow this is an interesting  person this is even this is a brilliant  person this is an intelligent person you  want to have lunch with them and if that  person  lacks self-confidence  and if that person lacks social skills  a woman who is attracted to a man who is  interested in a man who finds a man  interesting  she will be emboldened by his lack of  self-confidence that's like a good thing  for her  a woman who actually wants a man right  even if she just wants him at st step  one she wants to get lunch she will take  advantage  of his lack of self-confidence she will  take advantage of his awkwardness and so  she will put herself in a command  position and she'll she'll make it  happen you know she'll initiate the  relationship and i don't even think i  need to narrate that if you switch the  genders that's true if a man wants a  woman again like let's just say he wants  to take her out to lunch he's interested  in her and she has bad social skills  right she lacks self-confidence  right we all know what it means  immediately to say that a man takes  advantage of a woman's lack of  self-confidence her low self-esteem  right like for the person doing the  pursuing your lack of self-esteem  it  it's almost an invitation it's not a  it's not a  it's not an obstacle to be to be  overcome you know so  just say these are these are all copes  like in their that they just say cope  you know meaning it's a coping mechanism  like oh you're going to blame the fact  that you have bad social skills you're  going to blame this you're going to  blame that and it's not any of that at  all it really is the lack of uh  of intellectual development so sorry  coming back to you i do i have like four  things written on the piece of paper  here um  really the big idea i wanted to get  across in this video had to do with  self-pity with feeling sorry for  yourself so guys i'll take a moment to  read your comments if you want to say  something like now is a good time for  you to write something i'll actually  read it and respond to um  but look you know  i i don't begrudge kristen leo  her feeling sorry for herself if  anything that's like the most positive  part of what's going on right like i  think it's totally fine for christian  leo to reach a breaking point where she  sits down and feels really sad she feels  really down bad she sits there and she  has pity for herself she feels sorry for  herself  and she reflects on the fact that there  is no one for her in the society there  is no man for her she's never gonna have  the love of her life as she'd imagined  it  ten years ago or five years ago whatever  it was like i think that's that's really  meaningful and i think it's really  meaningful to engage in an analysis of  why that is you know  and my point here is  the correct conclusion is not  that her lips are too thin and she  should get fillers or botox or  injections or plastics or to make her  lips thinner  part of me to make her lips thicker you  know i think that's insane i don't think  that's the correct conclusion at all  you know but the actual  self-pity is not the problem like  self-pity leads to self-analysis it  leads to analysis of the society you're  in the job you have the university  you're at whatever it is like it can  lead to political analysis analysis on a  larger scale and also goes way beyond  yourself and your problems and it can  lead to really important conclusions  about what's going to happen next you  know and and the the the answer is not  botox injections i think i mean  christian leo is a really good example  probably most of you in the audience are  horrified that i've said to you that  timmy she's ugly whatever i have my own  subjective taste i'm completely owning  that it's subjective  right  but if you think she's beautiful or you  think she's playing you think she's good  looking enough  then what i've just said it's it's even  more true because it's even more  ridiculous why are you uh why are you  engaging in quote-unquote looks maxing  as the uh as the insults say and and  look i'm sorry the whole thing with  [ __ ] clothes and hair  there is no heterosexual man in the  world  who says you know what you know what  made me fall in love with this woman you  know what made me first notice her what  made me really interested in my my  girlfriend or my wife it was that she  wore these really hot shoes and they  matched so well with the with the dress  and the and the nylon socks  never  there is there is no heterosexual man  who looks at a woman and thinks wow she  knows how to pick earrings that match  with the highlights and accents in her  haircut i i want to have lunch with  zero  zero like not the shallow guys and not  the  zero now there are some gay men who work  in the fashion industry and they respond  that way like they're not interested in  you they're like oh wow that's a woman  who knows how to pick high heels and  knows how to pick earrings that all  match the colors and where that is like  that exists  there there are  zero heterosexual men who care about  your [ __ ] earrings there are zero  heterosexual men who care about your  designer shoes and on the contrary there  are a lot of heterosexual men who see  that as a red flag because it's like  whoa this is a woman this is a woman who  cares about wearing expensive designer  shoes maybe she's going to expect me to  buy her designer shoes like maybe there  are a lot of things what your life is  going to be like together if i move in  with this woman is she going to have a  separate closet for her designer like  there are a lot of things there were  heterosexual men are actually going to  respond to it negatively but  um  you know visibly or invisibly  every heterosexual man cares about how  intelligent you are even the shallowest  guys even the guys you swear they don't  even the guys who will put their hand on  a stack of bibles and swear to you that  all they care about is that a woman has  a nice ass i i guarantee i've spoken i  know i've known those guys face to face  guys who say they just care about a  woman's body you get five minutes into  the conversation they start telling you  about all the other things because they  know what it's like those guys they know  what it's like to start a relationship  with a woman  just because she has a great ass just  because they were attracted to her  physically and then as soon as she moves  into their apartment as soon as they're  living together an apartment their whole  life is horrible and terrible because of  you know the intellectual aspects of  what really makes a relationship work  what really matters they have to they  have to deal with that i know i'm sorry  i could tell a ton of stories about this  but i knew a guy and he um  he was in a relationship with a woman  she had been an aspiring olympic athlete  so i i don't know i think she didn't get  to the olympics but she had been  training to be an olympic athlete so  obviously she had a very impressive body  i never saw her i never met her i just  heard this guy's story about her and  that's what he liked about her that's  what he wanted for he uh he was very  impressed with her with her body  and um  she she had physically beaten him up  numerous times she had really seriously  assaulted him and he described one time  when she was trying to knock him  unconscious  when he you know like it was it was you  know it was really that extreme what  he'd been through with her  and uh anyway i could i could tell a lot  of details of that but that was a woman  who who became  you know physically abusive and she was  proud of herself she thought it was like  you know she she wasn't ashamed to beat  up her boyfriend to beat the man who  loved her she felt like this was a  distinction and mark of honor that she  know like and she's again she's in  training for the olympics and she's  gonna she can beat up her boyfriend you  know um now look again that particular  woman i don't have any reason to think  she's like a psychologically dark  character i just think she's an idiot i  mean i think  based it sounded like she was just a  really childish person who would never  develop themselves intellectually you  know at all and uh you know  i remember he told me the story so he  told me the story about the most extreme  physical abuse where she was trying to  knock him unconscious like she she  punched him in the face like more than  30 times on this occasion like it was  really serious it really protracted you  know beating  and um he told me about the conversation  he had with her afterwards too um  where you know he said to her you know  it's not profound he said that if he had  punched her back just once he would be  in jail now and he you know  how serious the consequence would be and  he said you know  if he had if he had responded with  violence she would be in the hospital  and he would be in jail  so you know how do you think you can you  can do this so i mean he got beaten up  but he didn't go to the hospital and she  didn't go to jail you know uh this is  this was really this is really serious  but what i said to him after he told  this story  i said  yeah  but you didn't leave her  right i was like how how long did the  like after that day  like i noticed in your story you don't  say and then i kicked her out or then i  left you you stayed with her why you  don't what and for how long  and you know he hung his head he was  like yeah you're right you're right he  talked about him but no he stayed with  her he tried to make it work now look  this is an extreme example but my point  is  sorry that guy he's the other big  relationship the same guy the other  relationship he told me about that made  his life horrible was with a woman who  was a stripper she was a professional  stripper and again i'm not hating on him  but all of these women in his lifetime  he chose them just because of their  physical attributes just because their  body was attractive and apparently the  stripper was a really good looking woman  and he told me about how she  made his life horrible too my point is  like  the shallowest guys who swear that's  what they live by  intellectual qualities matter to them  also  ethical qualities matter to them  also  um  [Music]  and and and you know  obviously i don't know what that guy  went on to do with the rest of his life  but i'm guessing the next relationship  he got into  wasn't with a stripper and wasn't with  an olympic athlete he was probably  started looking for women who had some  of the qualities that at least let him  feel safe to fall asleep in his own bed  in his own apartment kind of thing  sorry but obviously i mean a really  simple one is sobriety but yeah um  [Music]  frankly i think it's it's almost a  fantasy  to think that you can have a life that's  just based on on physical attraction  physical appearance it's people want to  believe that  all right guys i'm going to catch up  with you with your comments now for a  moment  uh by the way sorry melissa if you want  to joe i mean i mean  it's a sad topic of conversation but  it's hard for me to turn the list and  say hey you wanna you wanna add i know  it's it's sad  but  like fundamentally what i'm saying here  is very hopeful and positive  because i'm talking about the difference  you can't make i'm talking about the way  in which you can change and you can be a  better person and you can live a better  life and i think it's totally  incompatible with what jordan peterson  has to say it's totally compatible with  what the in cells have to say you know  but i mean you know  there's a sense in which this is  actually a positive and uplifting uh  sort of message as depressing as it may  be sure yeah i haven't made a youtube  video about this but i've made instagram  posts talking about how much your  philosophy has changed my outlook on  just your ability to  change your intellect and improve on  what you know you know become a more  knowledgeable person that's something  you really can change whereas you can't  exactly  change your bone structure you can't  really do much to change like where fat  deposits in your body you know all these  things all these minor things that  people obsess over  and yeah you know  i just thought it was funny that we  happened to to listen to that video from  chris and leo yesterday because i had in  the morning walked around the city and  seen these signs for lip filler botox  and  you know all these different things that  people  pay money for in order to feel better  about themselves  when i  i can really see  you know the truth and what you're  saying it's it's not necessarily about  your appearance it's really about  your intellect it's about what you have  to say and how you say it  so yeah i mean i i just i don't really  have anything  yeah  in disagreement to say  uh  well i i mean i guess it's also kind of  interesting because you know  i began this conversation by talking  about political violence  and this whole the whole political and  social significance of the in-cell  discourse wouldn't exist without  massacres this has been created through  murder you know uh murder as a public  political act you know that galvanizes  it one way and then the other you know  force here is just these guys claim or  the complaint that they  either they can't get laid at all they  can't have sex at all or specifically  that they can't have loving  relationships marriages you know a lot  of the discourse is about that it's not  just about sex it's about love it's  about marriage and having children that  is that is part of this course  you have been living for the last five  years  in a situation where  you have no problem getting laid you  know you're in a loving relationship  with someone who supports you and that's  not a question i mean you don't have to  study to get laid within this  relationship or whatever you know that's  not your issue at all  but  you know  you really are in a position to to feel  the transformation of how your whole  life has gotten better and gotten more  meaningful  because of the work you've done  intellectually and i'd say too like  i think you could contrast that to how  meaningless it was there was a time when  we both worked on improving our ability  to to bake to bake and cook you know to  bake bread  um that adds nothing to my life today  like i you know like you know we can we  can bake bread today but like you know  what there are other my point being  there are other things you've worked on  um that are not totally meaningless i  mean that baking bread more meaningful  than watching anime you know uh you know  you have also developed physically  you've started before she met me she'd  never lifted weights at the gym she's  learned that i lift weights you know  there are other things but like i the  fact that those other things exist in  your life  like i think that even gives more of a  perspective to like gives you more of a  sense of scale to the enormity of how  much the intellectual development  matters you know  yeah  i  i disagree if you want to disagree but  yeah you know yeah absolutely i know it  was just a response to one of the  comments that you received but i am very  interested in how  the fact that so many people are taking  medications for depression or for adhd  how this could be playing a role  in the in-cell movement and in  even  the role that they played in the  massacres that have have been carried  out by people within the in-cell  movement  um you know because  getting together with you i also credit  that in the beginning of my sobriety  yeah right for me that has really  the  the distance  the the  time that i've had to reflect on it has  really  made it very apparent to me just how  much smoking marijuana every day for  years of my life  really held me back and  uh drinking alcohol really held me back  too any time that i had on the weekends  to you know cultivate myself  intellectually i was spending  just a complete waste of time yeah  completely wasting my time playing video  games watching  yeah watching video games  uh watching watching a lot of sitcoms  and you watch just crap once again  you know i appreciate what you said  earlier i didn't watch anime but i  understand your point about anime it's  like you know these are the things that  are laid out for you right because  there's a sense of rebelliousness and  right putting putting on almost any kind  of meaningful life for example  hamlet  that's something that's really  challenging the status quo i agree with  you and i didn't have that creativity uh  but i didn't have the depression i did  have the  sense of anxiety and feeling like where  is the future here  and um  wanting a sense of direction so so i  want to i want to branch off here but i  think i think this can come back like  you can you can continue saying exactly  what you're saying you'll see so it's  one of the few things i've written down  on this paper i want to talk about is  when you think about self-pity  and the positive value of self-pity the  positive importance of feeling sorry for  yourself right  i would contrast that to  the effects of marijuana  like from my perspective and and by the  way i said this when i was 15. i said  this when i was 16 i said this when i  was 17. this came up with my circle of  friends in high school  i was talking about this then  from the same perspective i'm talking  about what i said back then is what is  so dangerous about marijuana  is that it allows you to think you're  happy when you're not  like the effects of marijuana of course  compared to methamphetamine they're  subtle compared to  you know  heroin they're so you know i understand  like you can conceal like the effects of  marijuana it's possible to keep your day  job you know and people aren't uh  suspicious of you the way cocaine makes  them suspicious of you with the change  in your behavior and so on but even then  i feel like i could add a whole bunch of  footnotes because it's often very  obvious that someone spokes marijuana  and they're people who very successfully  career pardon me there are people who  very successfully conceal  hard drugs in their career and so  actually there are a lot of exceptions  to this generalization but nevertheless  what i said already when i was a  teenager and i had  everyone i knew at high school was  smoking marijuana was look  the problem isn't the direct effect of  the drug itself  the problem is that you're not sitting  down and reflecting on how unhappy you  are like  in the terms we're talking about here  that it's concealing  how sad you are that it's misdirecting  you away  from self-pity you know like  if you're unhappy at school if you hate  your teachers at school you interesting  why  and you gotta sit down and think about  it i sent another tough love email to  one of my one of my patreon supporters  recently a guy who was still in high  school and so this guy isn't mentally  disabled or isn't to my knowledge it's a  totally different guy guy was still in  high school and he was saying to me  dismissively how what his teachers are  teaching them in high school is crap and  what's in the books or crap and i really  pushed back on him i said okay well  here's what i think is the problem i  think you're on an ego trip i think you  know you feel like you're too good to do  the work and do the studying and  actually you need to do 110  of the work like they give you this  history textbook you think it's crap  you're probably right it's probably a  bad history well why don't you do the  [ __ ] research so you know what's  wrong with it you don't just read it  once and you don't drag your feet to the  minimum you do 110 you read it twice and  you go out and get other history like i  was talking him through in effect this  is how to be an intellectual when you're  still a high school kid that's what it  is it's at a much lower level than being  an intellectual in your 30s but still  look instead of sitting there petulantly  and be like  i'm not going to do the work i'm too  cool to do the work i'm too cool for my  professors i'm too smart to read this  history textbook no you're not  if you were actually too smart you'd  read the history textbook and you do the  research and  you'd have all the footnotes so you know  exactly in what way this history  textbook is dishonest so that you  understand exactly the lies your history  teacher is telling you and you can even  prove it you can even stand up yourself  i don't recommend standing up in the  classroom but you can start a youtube  channel and you can get on youtube and  explain hey like let's say it's texas  here in the state of texas this is what  the textbook says this is what my  teacher said and here's the ways in  which it's wrong now you're now you're  an intellectual now you're starting to  develop as an intellectual not feeling  like you're you're you're too good for  it so forth right all right so sorry  that digression even still add marijuana  to the equation right you've got a sulky  sullen kid who feels they're too smart  for their teacher who feels they're too  good to do the reading too good to deal  with the textbook right  and now they're getting stoned four days  a week now they're smoking marijuana  [Music]  the word complacency isn't isn't  powerful enough to get at what i'm  saying here like if you think of this as  a fork in the road like either you feel  sorry for yourself either you engage in  self-pity where you feel sad you  recognize that you're sad and you really  reflect on it like you really  you know really analyze why am i sad why  am i unhappy with high school with my  career with my girlfriend with all the  things that make you unhappy maybe it is  maybe some of it's political  you live in a society where you hate the  political establishment whatever it is  when you really engage in self-pity  productively or  here's another fork in the road you get  stoned and play nba jam you smoke  marijuana and sit on the couch whether  it's video games or watching a tv show  like south park whatever and you sit  there and laugh and smile in this  inebriated state this is the sense in  which i think marijuana is so dangerous  and again for me  i think it has everything to do with  self-pity with the recognition of how  sad you are and then engaging in a kind  of productive analysis to move forward  all right and i didn't even mention of  course the other reason why you're you  may be sad is because you don't have a  boyfriend or girlfriend you don't have a  husband and wife you can't i probably  don't need to  do it but and people do cope with that  in those ways too so babe take away  everyone but you know if you if you have  more to say specifically on the  marijuana issue and that you know  marijuana yeah i definitely do but i  won't do it i won't speak out i do think  it's  most people don't know everything about  my life uh you are one of the few people  in this world who i've really shared  like yeah  so many things about my life and you she  knows everything about my life also okay  it's not like i'm mysterious  you know i recognize that uh you know  i'm talking to you here but i i'm also  talking to the audience that um doesn't  really know  all the ways in which  i felt hopeless in college too so i  really relate to what you were talking  about with nobody can feel the self-pity  for you yes that's right i didn't even  have that because maybe the roles are  just different with with females versus  males it's just like  you know there was a lot of coddling  that went on and when i talked about how  how help helpless and hopeless i felt oh  you're doing fine  yeah yeah  you're right for women it's worse oh  you'll do great sweetie you're doing fun  yeah i just i'm filling in the blank  culturally i know exactly  oh just study really hard and and you  know you'll pass your classes and uh  okay what about when i did it yeah  um that was such a blow to my confidence  uh such a blow to  my self-esteem when i when i wasn't  doing well in school and it was partly  because i was starting to rely on  marijuana to cope with some really awful  things that happened in my life you know  and it's like  just marijuana i agree with you it  allows you to be complacent allows you  to be happy uh momentarily i mean it's  right not the effects don't it's not  permanent  so i have to do it every day right so  some people can do multiple times today  yes exactly  but you're not confronting  the causes for your own happiness yeah  you know so i just yes you know exactly  what i'm talking about i just say  you know  the negative effects that it had on my  you know i just can't believe now in the  position that i it's hard for  sometimes i it's easy for me to lose  sight of this but the state that i'm in  now  i  i feel bad about the times of the day  that i'm just not alone you know i'm not  quick i'm not hurt and there are times  that you know i  i just screw up on something some  paperwork or something i don't know yeah  you're in a scattered cinema yeah  because i for whatever reason i'm just  not not with it at that moment  like that to me just those those periods  of the day where i feel tired or  lethargic like i want to do everything i  can to avoid that i cannot believe for  years of my life like i was inducing  that in order to sedate myself and feel  you know try to feel better about this  one that was really not the right way to  go right about it so yeah i know this is  only  partly related to this in-cell  phenomenon  um but yeah i think it's a i'm just  being i think it's a perfect parallel  like in your case it wasn't related to  getting laid but in every other aspect  it's the same thing like that's that's  my feeling about it yeah and  not consult you but i think you could  imagine if you had been fat and ugly  then it would have it would have been  exactly the same i mean you  yeah  you commented on uh how  some of  some of the  just  focusing on your body focusing on your  appearance is a is a cope yeah this  vocabulary uh  yes i really do think to to distract  from just  lack of cultivation as someone's  stupidity someone's ignorance uh  someone's inability to even express  themselves in their first language  that's a really good point yeah  you know uh we spend so much time well  as a society in our culture we spend so  much time watching television and  consuming things we don't really spend  enough time cultivating our ability to  to speak well i think this is a problem  um so  you know this this aspect of it um i  really think that's that's that's  crucial and adding drugs to it adding  marijuana to it you think that improved  my speech no  it put me in a state where i didn't have  to speak and i was just right you know  yeah so i just said  you're you're constantly sedated yeah  yeah  um so look  there's a comment from the audience here  and you know i'm not  i'm not here to ridicule you and and  make you feel bad about yourself  but i do just want to say in reading  this comment  i think you're a terrible person  i could reflect on why this comment  makes me think you're a terrible person  but it's it's possible you don't know  how old any of these people it's  possible you're just a very young person  who has no  real world experience and it could be  both you could be both young and a  terrible person so here's the comments  from someone in the audience called  someone potato  quote  being a lifelong student means nothing  if you do nothing with it  i know a lot of unemployed or  underemployed intellectuals who are not  impacting their communities in any sort  of meaningful way close quote  okay  so  again it's just there's no this comment  makes me think  you're a terrible person  all right  in the army  you can have 10 guys doing exactly the  same job  um  let's narrow it down let's say it's the  french foreign legion  and i know because i looked at joining  the french royal agent i know what their  daily routine is  so every day they're doing exactly the  same exercises  jogging jumping hurdles  uh shooting targets  i have a certain  physical training  routine sometimes it involves things  like digging ditches getting into  foxholes stuff you know okay  so  you know  if you have 10 guys  and every day they literally do exactly  the same job  exactly  okay  but one of them is developing himself  intellectually  one of them in his spare time is really  reading about politics and history and  say they're learning a language becoming  fluent in a foreign language you know  you think  that doesn't matter  you think and let's say the other nine  guys let's say each one of them is  different one of them in his spare time  when he's not doing this job near me  he's just watching sports on tv one of  them is just playing video games let's  say one of them is an alcoholic  maybe one of them is a drug addict uh  maybe one of them  is just into soap operas maybe one of  them is a whoremonger like he just  sleeps around he goes to nightclubs and  like that's his whole life is pursuing  uh women and prostitutes that he can  hook up with the neglect you know they  have different interests out of these 10  guys let's say there's just one  who's intellectual  what does that look like after five  years  if you just show up at the army camp and  see them for one day  oh well they all they all shoot a rifle  just as well they all run the obstacle  course just as well that's what i mean  when i say running hurdles they have  these military obstacles but it's it is  a lot like running around you know  they're jumping over hurdles and  climbing walls oh yeah all ten men are  the same  after just five years  okay life is long  wear that when they're 65 where are they  at after  more than 40 years  really  no  um  it's not just the military i chose that  because that's a job where everyone is  doing exactly  the same thing you can have 10 people  who work in real estate you can have 10  people who i mean any conceivable job  where you're basically doing the same  thing you know and and you're quote  unquote  underemployed as you put it the point  being really this doesn't have to do  with underemployment or over employment  does it you can be a surgeon  most surgeons are not intellectuals you  can be a successful architect you can  have a high status job where nobody  would call you underemployed that's  irrelevant that's immaterial  because your employment has nothing to  do with your intellectual development  and as you say that's even true for me  here on youtube  i started a research project this is now  years ago uh but not that many years ago  two or three years ago where i decided i  had to learn the history of the the  english civil war  no there's no pressure on me to do that  for my audience no way  is part of my success on youtube you  know to deal with my own ignorance or  from my own intellectual development  it's like well this is a chapter of  history i haven't put the work in on i  am still now like literally like today  learning more about the american  revolution and that research is linked  to the history of english civil war by  the way in a dynamic way so one helped  to set up the other i don't need to to  finish my book i don't need to for this  youtube channel any of you could say we  could list off 10 different things i  could do to get more views on youtube i  can hire a model in a bikini i can do a  bunch of comedy videos that involve a  woman in a bikini or something all kinds  of things i can do to be more successful  as an entertainer as a filmmaker as as a  youtuber right so i mean even for me  like my intellectual development isn't  really related to my job even for an  architect it's not really your job  but obviously as a soldier in the  military what you're expected to live up  to as an intellectual standard is very  low they need to be sharp they need to  be alert when you get out there with a  machine gun but you know um  no that one guy in 10  who's developing himself intellectually  it really matters  and with the passage of just a couple of  years  you see the difference it it makes  and you know whether or not  he may never be promoted in the military  the military doesn't need that many guys  uh in intelligence you know they don't  need you know he could just keep on  firing the machine gun for the french  foreign legion for his whole career it  totally happens you know whatever your  job is  it in 99  you know what i only want to say it's  nine percent i'm going to say 100 of the  time  your intellectual development isn't  really related to your job  even if you're a painter like picasso  your commitment to  leading a meaningful life or being a  lifelong student and developing yourself  as intellectual  really has nothing to do with your  success as a as a painter you know so  you know what  it really matters and it really has  tremendous effects now the other thing  i'd say here i mean um  it makes me think you're a bad person so  partly i i think you're a bad person  because the way in which you've linked  this to earning money  which it doesn't just have nothing to  deal with it it's kind of antithetical  retirement here but the other thing is  this statement you've made  not impacting their communities in any  sort of meaningful way  who who is beholden to their  community  nobody like guys you don't hear that  side of my nihilism all that often  you think i owe the city of toronto  anything  you think i have a moral obligation to  be involved in or care about the  politics of the city of toronto i don't  each one of us  we choose the burden we're going to take  on in life  now i did go to city hall in toronto i  did get involved in municipal politics i  did  a long story i can talk about that and i  learned from that experience you know  that was  educational in a way university never  can be university education political  science very different from actually  doing the politics being literally being  in the same room as the mayor and  actually getting up at the microphone  and giving a deposition and so on you  know there's a way in which i i can  learn that but  i made the decision  that i was gonna go to cambodia and get  involved in cambodian politics right  it's it's totally your choice ex nilo  all right you are not beholden to any  community you are not beholden to any  nation you are not beholden to any  religion  right  the choice is yours  and this is part of the liberating  empowering  message  of nihilism right the fact that your  parents are muslim  doesn't mean you have to be muslim you  also don't have to be an anti-muslim  like you don't have to become an atheist  who is engaged in the critique of islam  or trying to convert people from islamic  you can be born muslim  and decide to go to cambodia and be  involved in cambodian politics that have  nothing to do with islam one way or the  other you can be born muslim let's say  you're born in syria and you can move to  toronto and you can get deeply involved  in the politics of toronto or chicago or  los angeles like it's on you  but  being an intellectual has nothing to do  with earning money  out of your intellectual development it  has nothing to do with the question of  whether or not you get a promotion in  the military because you're an  intellectual and normally they do note  those guys like oh yeah there's the  here's the one guy in a thousand who's  reading books in his spare time and they  will note it down on the record and  they'll mention it to the guys in the  intel core and intelligence or in the  sigiant uh core signals signals  intelligence or they'll note it down for  the language we're like oh yeah we do  have a guy who reads books  you know maybe you'd be interested in in  him for some other kind of training or  assignment it does it does happen  sometimes but  also they don't need a whole lot of guys  they need a lot of guys who can fire a  machine gun they don't need that many  guys working in intelligence um the  point is your intellectual development  doesn't have to do with earning money  you're not beholden to earn money and  you're not there's no reason to assume  you can monetize that and also there is  absolutely no sense in which you're  beholden to your community or any  community  and if you don't like the community  you're born into  choose a new one and start your own even  like literally you can go to an  abandoned ghost town and buy a house for  five thousand dollars there's you can  get everything you can literally start  your own community um in the physical  tangible sense you know i i i they're  probably i can move into a town in uh in  utah with my five biggest fans we can  start a community life would be hard  you know no so i mean it can be a  community that doesn't exist or you can  you can you can choose myanmar you know  it's it's all on you in that sense and  again so look i won't go into this in  any in any length or anything we started  this talking about incels right  are you [ __ ] kidding me that your  intellectual development doesn't matter  in this sense if you have a bunch of  guys who are currently in the u.s marine  corps who all go to a bar together so  this happens i give you a very very  specific example  uh there is a u.s marine corps base  that's a short drive outside of los  angeles uh not worth getting into the  details and every so often a whole bunch  of those guys so these are the young  strong physically fit guys us marine  corps they go into los angeles to try to  get laid to go to a nightclub or go to  some other place like this where they  can meet women because their life on the  base is very limited  okay  now we started this sell discourse let's  just say you are a woman  uh  they could go to the dance club at  disneyland you know i mean it may not be  a you know maybe a wholesome place like  this not some den of sin like let's say  they go to disneyland together  you think it doesn't matter the  difference between  the soldier who is just a video game  addict who in his spare time on his bunk  bed is playing a portable video game  system and the soldier who on his spare  time on his bunk bed is really  developing himself  intellectually that makes such a  difference to women even the women  who've never really thought about it  like women who don't aren't aware  they're looking for an intellectual man  they meet this guy and he's sharp and  he's interesting and he's profound and  here's this other guy who does exactly  the same job and earns the same amount  of money in this case they're in the  same physical condition let's say  they're all doing the same training at  the marine corps base and this guy is  dumb and out of it and all he spends his  time doing is playing video games and  watching anime like  sorry this isn't the only sense in which  it's meaningful but this video is  addressed  in large part to the the in-cell  phenomena  of course it matters and how how  abominably shallow do you think people  are my claim is even the people who  identify as shallow even the people who  go to disneyland we're saying things  rather than like there are dance uh you  know there are dance clubs and things  within disneyland there are there are  kind of middle-aged and and  more teenaged you know trash in the  disneyland i think people do hook up at  disneyland anyway you know  even people who tell themselves they're  only looking for someone with a great  body  it even matters to them you know and the  vast majority of men in the vast  majority of women they don't they  wouldn't they wouldn't say they're just  looking for someone with a great body  so no it matters on that level and then  it matters even more in terms of all the  other friendships  and all the other connections you you  have in your life  and look you know um  sorry it matters in prison  and of course it matters within the  prison of the of the vegan movement you  know who who is friends with me who's  trying to be friends with me and who's  trying to be friends with kristin leo  who is trying to be friends with this  beg  you know if all you are is a body  that's  it's all you've presented yourself as  it's all you've tried to develop  that's that's all you've got to offer  you know and that's how you relate to  people you know you think again of  course this has an impact on your love  life your romantic life or whatever but  in every other part of your life it's  huge too  and then you know what if you want to  have some impact on some  community whether that's toronto city  hall or the civil war in myanmar you  know well what then what can tess beg  really do what can kristin leo really do  what can you do  and now ask yourself who are you going  to be five years from now  like the positive message i'm giving you  is even if you are literally test bag  even if test bag is watching this right  now or you are someone who has been  living a life similar to test bag for  the last five years think about the  person you could be five years from now  you could be someone whose opinion  matters uh in the civil war in myanmar  or at city hall in the city you live in  or in a different city hall somewhere  else in the world you've never been to  in a language you don't even speak yet  you know  i mean guys i've talked a lot about um  uh moving to los angeles  uh  what if instead i moved to guatemala  just to give you an example so today i  speak zero spanish  zero and you guys are going to see me  practicing the spanish language  zero i do i do not know the spanish verb  for to have or the spanish verb for to  be like french i'm at a certain level  german i'm at a certain level like there  are many other ones where spanish is  zero do you guys think  i would be incapable of making my  political opinion matter in guatemala  five years from now  starting today from  zero uh melissa what we're talking about  el salvador  politics in el salvador  you don't think and again it doesn't  even matter like i could start here like  i don't have to move to el salvador  first i could spend the next two years  getting deeper and deeper into  salvadorian politics here at my desk in  canada  get fluent in spanish or get as good at  spanish as i can do and then i can move  to el salvador and try to roll heavy you  think just me as one intellectual no  friends no contact no movement  nothing behind me  you think you think it wouldn't create  ripples i i already did that in vienchen  laos i mean i've done that in different  kind of you know i know i had some  political impact on on the fate of the  tiny nation of laos and the capital city  vance you know like you can show up i  also remember there was one polish guy i  talked to about that about his own  political the political consequences of  what he'd stood up for both he and i  were really interested in ecology um so  it was interesting uh interesting to  compare notes on that no you you think  one person one intellectual can't make a  difference in  in el salvador  el salvador guatemala and i'm pointing  out  i have no advantage i don't even speak  spanish today probably mostly in the  audience speak more spanish than i do  i'm at zero right um  but  what if you're test vague  if test bed moves to el salvador she  can't do [ __ ] except take a [ __ ]  photograph of her ass  on the beach in front of a sunset that  is the [ __ ] upper limit of what test  egg can do  and in the next five years it's not  going to be so cute she's getting older  we all are where is she gonna be five  years now where's she gonna be ten years  from now if you are kristen leo kristen  i [ __ ] defy you  go to el salvador what the [ __ ] can you  do right and obviously el salvador like  politically it's in a tough situation  but you know it's not as dangerous as  libya it's not as dangerous as syria  it's not as dangerous as myanmar it's  not as dangerous as cambodia you know  really your life is not going to be in  danger in el salvador guatemala the way  it would be  actually egypt you want to get involved  in egyptian politics  high risk um you can this can be the end  of your life easily easily you can end  up martyred if you want to [ __ ] around  with egyptian politics no question  anyway sorry i'm just saying i don't  trivialize this but you know the problem  is  that kristen leo hasn't developed  herself intellectually in any respect in  the last five years and that's why she  can't do that pardon me in the next five  years right or if she can't prove me  wrong  hit the books kristen and maybe you can  do that like maybe you know maybe  starting out with test bag or kristen  leal give it 110  and  yes  when you do that if you do that anything  meaningful any anything interesting in  your life people will want to go to  lunch with you you know women will find  you interesting if you're a man men will  find you interesting if you're if you're  a woman i obviously i can't promise you  you're going to have an amazing sex life  and maybe you won't maybe have other  problem but you know that is the  fundamental basis that's the start and  in my opinion that's the whole incel  movement is coping with you know um  and obviously like their fantasy is that  there's a beautiful woman out there  who is going to appreciate them  while they sit on the couch  playing video games and watching anime  while making no effort to be a better  person or no effort to make the world a  place that's what they want they want a  woman who's going to love them just the  way they are and women love  men they don't love  children they don't love an adult man  who still lives like a child that's not  what any woman is looking for they're  not they're not looking for a man who is  still doing anime and cosplay and video  games anyway sorry like obviously all  these things you you can get away with  having a little bit of video games in  your life or a little bit of anime in  your life i don't think i have to  digress to do that not you know it's not  that every woman is looking for a uh  intellectual superman who's totally  totally devoted to that  but  um  you know obviously uh the the social  political context we're in is not one in  which i have to have to make that  argument i have to make the moderate  argument for moderate self-indulgence  the problem is we're drowning in  self-indulgence and you know people  would rather  engage in murder they'd rather engage in  terrorism in the name of this  uh  this doomed political movement  than  you know deal with with these real  problems personally or scaling it up and  politically or otherwise you know what  i'm saying  um  so i just want to say again so guys i am  going to read more your comments  this is a good time to comment and i  will actually read what you say  you know um  uh the unabomber  he published books just within the last  couple of years  so i'm sorry i forget to what extent  they were published in 2021 or 2020 but  he published several books  just recently  and people are reading them people are  talking about them and i considered i  did some research i considered  reading those books in order to  criticize them here on  on youtube in terms of something that's  that's going on  um so that's a whole political movement  built on murder  now  you  know the unabomber  he was an incel  and actually his political and personal  history has everything to do with in  seldom before  the term existed  the major crisis in his life what drove  him to live alone in the woods  and what drove him to become a terrorist  and drove him to reject teaching at a  university  campus was his inability to get laid  now  i know what i'm about to say sounds  unbelievable  you can google it you can  this is very easy to back up with  innumerable published sources uh you may  not know this but the unibomber was a  heterosexual  who spoke to medical doctors about  undergoing transgender surgery and this  shows how really you know  really mentally disabled the guy was his  reasoning was that he was this  heterosexual man  who couldn't get laid so therefore if  they could uh surgically transform him  into a woman he would have an easier  time he'd be able to get late like he'd  be able to gratify his instincts as a  heterosexual man by undergoing plastic  surgery that would  that would make him a woman and then  he'd have sex with men right like sorry  that  you know if you like you know and like  the level of misconception here so like  you're going to take a heterosexual man  who's lonely and as an incel you're  going to give him  uh  silicone breast implants right like  that's what we're talking about you know  and then he's going to have sex with a  man like there are so many things wrong  with this but he actually went in and  did the interviews you know you there's  a process of of interviewing with  doctors before you can set up an  appointment and undergo that kind of  transgender surgery and at that time  this is many decades ago so i forget  when this was that you can imagine that  screening process was more demanding  than we had to talk to a psychiatrist an  established look or are you really the  right candidate for this surgery  i do hear things that today so many of  the doctors are so uh encouraging that  people are just rapidly waved through um  you know or you know encouraged to get  transgender surgery right away without  this kind of psychological scrutiny  anyway this was actually crucial to his  breakdown  to his  deciding that the whole university was  evil that the whole academic  establishment was evil and that the  whole of society as he defined it was  evil and to go into seclusion and go  into rebellion however we have his  diaries  as evereco he wrote them in code he  wrote encrypted diaries  and this yearning  his in-cell rage against society it  didn't stop it didn't end  like he kept writing in his diary how  much it would mean to him just to have a  woman to hold his hand like even if he  had a relationship that wasn't sexual if  there was a woman who could love him  and this is just very psychological  telling once when he was a little kid  an older woman told him just flattery  has given to told him that he was he was  very handsome that he was  extraordinarily  uh good looking and he clung to this he  clung to this compliment his whole life  and he thought of himself as  extraordinarily good looking and wrote  about himself destroyed not good looking  and he again he was it's exactly like  the in-cell philosophy and someone  thought he was blaming society that he  even though he was this extraordinarily  good-looking man couldn't find a woman  and couldn't get laid and didn't have  any romantic options and this is because  of the  conspiratorial evil nature of our  society which i did not digress into but  it's the same  same kind of strange world-hating  uh  delusion that incels sink into  uh which is to say is different from  self-pity it's different from sitting  down and analyzing why am i so sad and  really dealing with that right  world building  fantasy delusionary fantasy paranoid you  know fantasies you know  and you know uh he talked to very few  people  but then he had one conversation with  one woman whom he somehow befriended and  he asked her about this so this is just  one conversation one old woman was nice  to him when he was a little kid and said  oh you know you're really handsome  you're you know  some people say that to kids it doesn't  mean anything you know some people just  say encouraging things they tell they  tell little girls they're pretty until  little boys are handsome and it doesn't  mean anything but he'd clung to this  this notion he was extremely awesome and  then he had one conversation with one  woman and this is out when he's already  a middle-aged man living in a cabin in  the woods he's already run away from the  university and  run away from social media and he talked  a woman and she was just very perplexed  about what he said about himself and she  told him apparently her word when she  told them that he was run of the mill  like you know he wasn't ugly you know  what do you mean  you're a run-of-the-mill looking guy  and this had a huge devastating impact  on him he had clung to this notion that  he was extraordinarily handsome and was  really entitled to the adoration of  women  you know and again he's so screwed up  that he actually signed up for plastic  surgery to transform himself into a  woman even though he was in no way  homosexual and i'm saying he was in no  way even a transgender person he wasn't  into cross-dressing it was just this  delusion of that he could get laid this  way  um  [Music]  i'm sorry for some of you if you've  never heard this stuff before i realize  how bizarre it sounds but  trust me you can you can google it  it's just the truth  um this was the uh the the  political and psychological and sexual  experience that created this terrorist  the unabomber he really is kind of the  original incel  uh terrorist  um uh  so you know his his rejection of society  his notion of his own  superiority and entitlement  and i just add as a significant footnote  we do not know  if he was autistic  or sorry is because he's still alive  he's still writing books and he may now  he may in the next 10 years be more uh  politically um  uh influential  i i don't know  obviously i think his political  philosophy is incredibly stupid but not  everyone sees it that way  um  you know he was enraged  by the sound of lawn mowers  on other people's property  and that's very typical for autistic  people i have one friend who is autistic  i don't have a lot of friends who are  autistic and i've just mentioned i have  several fans of the channel like they're  not my friends but they write to me they  talk to me who are autistic and very  often those are really the criteria that  give it away the inability to cope with  the feeling of your shirt collar uh  what's called ambient uh sensitivity to  things the inability to cope with  certain kinds of noises those tend to be  so  look i do not know to what extent was  the unabomber just an incredibly stupid  person and to what extent did he  actually have a condition like autism  like an actual form of mental  retardation  uh  you know i could tell other other  other details here uh related to his his  very strange  uh sort of sort of stupidity  um  but yeah  i ask you  you know  um when you look at the messaging  uh about ecology today when you look at  the messaging about global warming today  when you look at the messaging about  veganism today and i have been actively  warning against this for like eight  years  you know when you are delivering these  messages uh you know yes to young people  but also the middle age and older people  when you are telling people this is the  end of the world and this is the  this is this crisis you have to make a  difference in it there have already been  science fiction movies made about this  the army of 12 monkeys movie terrible  movie don't see it i only saw a few  minutes of it but that was a mainstream  movie starring bruce willis i was a  bruce willis action science fiction  movie there have already been science  fiction movies made about this that the  ecological the same ecological hysteria  that the una bomber fastened onto was to  say really it's this kind of in-cell  rage that's motivating his downward  spiral it's my analysis but there's a  lot of evidence to back it up his own  sexual crisis of identity  and his sense of intellectual  superiority and his sense of moral  spirit and even his sense he thought he  was an incredibly handsome person you  know his sense of superiority with his  he was entitled these things and  couldn't get them and this fueled it um  you tell me aren't we sitting on a  powder keg aren't we sitting on a time  bomb isn't it just a matter of time  until someone does  for  veganism what these few  maniacs did for the in-cell movement  right where that becomes the face of the  the definitive political significance of  what incel means you know like obviously  it's easy to imagine if those killings  hadn't happened if those massacres  hadn't happened you could have a totally  different discourse about in cells that  had never been in the newspaper  headlines right  well  isn't it just a matter of time now  whether it's someone responding to the  instigation of roger hallam at  extinction rebellion i have many videos  criticizing my job or someone responding  to the instigation of gary yourofsky or  you know numerous other uh radical  voices  is and look you know  like in a sense this already happened  with the unabomber it's just that the  unabomber wasn't vegan like we're lucky  the unabomber was an insane ecologist  but he killed an eight rabbits he spent  all his [ __ ] time chopping up rabbits  it's horrible i think also deer once in  a while but as i understand his diet was  mostly rabbit you know so he lives in  the woods in this horrible cabin  spattered with blood where he slaughters  wild animals he was one of those crazy  guys well you know  it's not even something new  what already happened with the vegan  movement  what already happened with the incel  movement what already happened with the  unabomber it's very easy to predict that  sooner or later somewhere in the world  there's going to be just one crazy guy  if not 10  who takes away the narrative from us  forever where we don't get to define  what veganism is and what it should be  anymore because just one massacre just  one act of violence has drawn the lines  in the sand for us all  babe if you want to talk about so i'm  going to now read the comments but i  just say  for me these are really genuinely the  same issue but i know i mean we've  covered a lot of ground but hey this is  a bellas yell you know  i wanted to respond to this  discussion about the uniform that  in his thought process  about  not being able to get laid  uh he he decided to discuss with a  certain  transgender surgery but also  psychiatrists just mentioned psychology  yeah yeah yeah so yeah there's a lot to  do with psychiatrists  it's so  illogical if the pool of people  interested in being with you as a  heterosexual man uh was as small as it  was right why would it be a larger pool  of people who are interested in you  being a transgender woman right okay so  this is a level of  no no i just wanna i'm not claiming it  makes sense go on yeah right yeah  or lack of thought process  just emotional thinking on its part  because he's he's lonely right  we have a saying in english the grass is  greener on the other side of the hill  but go on yeah yeah yeah um so i just  wanted to say that this is just a level  of  selfishness too  that uh i remember an old video of yours  where you were discussing um this this  concept of being somebody's uh  in the transgender  uh community where you expect the other  person in the relationship to to have  that desire for somebody who is  transgender sorry if you're not enough  much sense but like you know um  when you're in a relationship with  somebody you can't be thinking totally  selfishly about your desires you have to  be thinking does the other person desire  this so in this in the unibomber's case  okay who is going to be  in a in a situation where they're  desiring this person and what do you  bring to them  what do you bring into their life and  and it's it's this very self-centered  thinking that i see also in other  videos that i've seen of insults that  are talking about you know feeling so  lonely or like you mentioned you know i  wish i just had somebody to hold my hand  well okay um you know  can you instead think of what you can  bring to somebody else and isn't that  more meaningful than just somebody  holding your hand and it's more childish  to think well i just need somebody right  with me to not be alone you know and  that that is not attractive i agree with  you in that in that sense that women are  attracted to  men and women are not attracted to  children yeah men not boys kind of thing  yeah yeah yeah  um so in a sense so i know this is not  yeah  not on the point that you were just  ending with about um you know eventually  something will happen in the vegan  community some some vegan will  will  incite some violence you know like that  that is that is concerning to me too and  uh i agree we are at the stage where you  said recently it's molten lava it's not  yes right now yeah i don't know it's  a liquid metal as opposed to solid steel  still a good still a good image molten  lava as opposed to solid stone it works  just as well yeah it's still malleable  right  right yeah um  and we have to  the people who are  trying to think  100 years in advance like you you know  people are thinking well what is the  future of  life on planet earth ecologically uh  what is the future of life on planet  term in terms of animal suffering  the people that we want to have their  voices heard  we want that to be  we want veganism to be viewed as a  rational movement something that you  know  something that can really make a  difference in the world  rather than um  this this type of  impetus to massacre you know like this  is what's going to make something  important that's terrible you know it's  that's that's the wrong way to go about  this and it's also  in the sense it's it's childish it's  it's ridiculous to think that this is  going to it  in the same way that you know  protesting with signs on the street and  yelling is also childish to think like  well  if i'm if i scream loud enough or if i  you know  chant loud enough with with  my group of friends then something will  change then then the government the  governor will change his mind right and  make some you know  but so i want to stick on that just to  be fair to the other side and i'm sure  you felt this during your childhood if  you grew up part of the problem is that  we're constantly being shown on  television  examples to the contrary even if they're  one in a million or they're one in a  billion you know what i mean now  um  [Music]  i can way back when i was a small child  like this is a really small child you  know you look at tv and it seems like  people play the guitar and become famous  oh and wealthy all the time right okay i  was you know i was a pretty cynical kid  i didn't believe in that phone but it's  completely understandable just given the  way  uh whether it's newspapers or television  or radio the way in which they are  selecting out that one person in a  million and showing the showing you that  kind of extraordinary success again and  again and again um you might think that  just anyone could be an olympic athlete  also growing up so you might think  anyone can be okay but but in the same  way  um  whether you're talking about  violent  political protest or  non-violent  right  that you're seeing the counter examples  again and again  very often with uh  false causality assigned to them so you  know you will have a headline that says  vietnam war ends  and you'll literally have a photograph  of attractive women in bikinis  with you know flowers painted on their  body like you know uh sexy teenagers  protesting in streets when vietnam war  ends this completely false cause and  effect relationship is presented to you  again in newspapers and on on  even we saw a news item this morning you  know  like this totally false sense of how  politics works is between you and also  that it's the one exception it's the one  case out of a thousand it's the one case  out of a million now i'm not going to  get into a lengthy deep critique of the  media this way  there were  news broadcasts  about the pro-democracy protests in hong  kong saying hey it's working it's  working it's working  and then you don't get news broadcast  saying it's failing it's failing it's  failing right like just chronologically  even if you were optimistic for the  first few days of those protests in hong  kong after a certain point you should  have been reporting on and examining the  extent which is failing myanmar  is it  just over one year ago it hasn't gone  off that long the current protest in  some ways the history of myanmar goes  back thousands of years but the current  phase of the pro-democracy movement in  myanmar  um  you know again i  this is all fresh in my memory you got  this news reporting saying it's working  it's working it's working and then just  really briefly you get this it's not  it's not really working you know you  don't get an in-depth interest analysis  of of the failure so no no you know this  isn't exactly the same as talking about  the way in which musicians become  celebrities right they're not they're  not the same but i'm pointing out  there's a similar kind of misperception  of reality that from childhood  forward seems natural now  maya culpa  in this video  i have mentioned the example of just two  people in the incel movement who engaged  in massacres and they've changed the  whole western world they've had a huge  impact there's no way to understate or  overstate that these were two acts of  violence i would just say massacre you  know  transformed political discourse  including i mean so it was mentioned  jordan peterson and people like jordan  peterson they've been talking about it  in cameron saying conservatives  left-wing people feminists what what's  been going on in feminism has certainly  been galvanized and transplants is a  huge huge impact so i mean that also is  is cherry-picking how many massacres  have happened in bolivia how many  massacres happened in colombia how many  massacres have happened in cambodia one  cambodian in the audience showed it to  like anne  of you know  there's no there's no such  impact i mean whatever even myanmar how  many people are being snuffed out in  myanmar how many people being killed in  communist china you can have massacres  like there's like this also this is like  only looking at uh the tiny minority of  musicians or actors or that have a huge  impact sometimes with very little effort  since you can talk about a song that was  recorded live so actually you know a  great example and this is this is kind  of ridiculous but there was one stand-up  comedian who made one joke about bill  cosby and it wasn't even a funny joke he  just stood there on stage saying look  it's crazy that bill cosby got away with  rape if you guys don't remember there's  just one moment and that clip got picked  up it wasn't the first time he'd said it  part of his routine for quite a while it  was really i mean it wasn't even really  a joke it was really in the middle of a  stand-up comedy routine pointing the  finger at bill cosby and saying this is  ridiculous it's had tremendous  consequences at least within american  politics i think bill cosby doesn't  matter as much in europe as he does in  america so you know it does he doesn't  matter as much in cambodia that's for  sure but the the the the criminalization  of bill cosby put it that way you know  it's had tremendous knock on consoles  and it still is so to my knowledge i  haven't watched it there's a new  documentary film series that's coming  out right now saying i believe the title  is uh we have to talk about bill cosby  but i haven't i haven't seen it i'm not  going to make time to see it but yeah  this is some tremendous uh importance  the death of george floyd  well a lot of people get killed by the  cops  a lot of people die in strange  circumstances like  this is my point is that it's it's very  easy  uh to convince yourself that violent  protest will work whether you're looking  at the unibomber or the in-cell movement  it's very easy to justify your mind and  it's also easy to convince yourself that  sexy  standing on the sidewalk in a bikini  holding a banner protest work it's like  i think for my audience i've made so  many videos talking about this you  already know why it's ludicrous to think  that way and even if you sympathize with  the protest i just had film footage on  my channel whatever it was couple days  ago i had film footage these people  standing and holding a sign saying we  want democracy in myanmar  is that how they created democracy in  ancient athens  is that how it happened ancient rome is  that what it's really you know i mean  i'm sorry you can read machiavelli  mackey village discourses it's chilling  the way he talks about huge numbers of  people dying and machiavelli is telling  you straight up you want to have a  democratic republic you want to have a  semi-democratic republic because for the  most part many people are saying about a  mixed democracy a hybrid republic that's  not purely it's not as democratic as  athens was you know but it has aspects  that aren't you want that  machiavelli tells you straight up you  have to be willing to kill and die in  large numbers and not just in one  civil war but again and again that's the  lesson he took from ancient rome you  know what i mean like you know it's it's  chilling oh and sorry if this is too  abstract for you you want democracy in  cuba  you want democracy in syria you know  really you want democracy in libya you  you want democracy in cambodia  it's not going to be holding a sign  this is not how it happens so yeah you  know i'm i'm just fleshing that out a  little bit um yes it's preposterous i  mean  what is more preposterous the idea that  you're going to bring about the  ecological transformation of society  through terrorism  or the idea that you're going to bring  about a kind of transformation in gender  politics  it's a good way to summarize what the  end cells are on about through through  terrorism  but in the same way that we're  conditioned to regard  successful movie stars successful  musicians like the the one in a million  is me the the hollow type the  extraordinary exception is made into the  standard and the norm  the exceptions to the rules in politics  the one in a million is made the norm  and then also as i say the cause and  effect relationship is totally  misrepresented and glamorized again and  again so that's  that's sadly the framework we're working  with then you know  i said i'll be say more if you're gonna  say i mean you know i realized i was  partly responding to what you were  saying and partly taking a different  direction yeah yeah that's great you  know i just  i'm just aware you know  the  impact of seeing those examples on  television  and even  the responsibility that journalists have  in covering these events and  um  you know  how many people work in congress  that never get featured in the news or  if they do  the changes that they've made are  relatively minor um and they don't  become famous whereas  the internal killer  just uh just to give an example think  about how sobering that is think about  how many people have become say the  mayor of san francisco  and they've never had the political  impact of these violent yeah  you can pick any example but like if  like right now for you if you want to  become the mayor of san francisco like  20 years from now if you have a 20-year  plan to become the mayor of san  francisco or almost any city or town you  know that's really a tough road to get  on  but but then they have to stand there  and say oh well i've had less of a  political importance then yeah  that these terrible people who engaged  in terrorism yeah exactly yeah just a  couple days ago it was because i uh  i happen to see that  one of the mayors of flint had passed  away so he wasn't the current mayor but  um  just i had never heard of him before to  be honest with you even though i grew up  so close to flint uh michigan you know  it's just in this way you know i  i want people to recognize within uh the  media like  what what we choose to talk about you  know that  making these people out to be more  important than they are also it  influences the rest of the history of  the world um  in a way that  like you said in colombia there have  been massacres  in in this span of time that we've been  dealing with mass shootings in america  you know um but that hasn't been making  the headlines it hasn't been making um  history in the way that uh  yeah these insults have so hey  no look i agree with you so i'm just  managing the comment section while  you're while you're talking um i used  the example of uh  extinction rebellion who have not yet  engaged in  bloodshed shall we say that have not yet  engaged in a massacre i i've warned  again and again if you just listen to  the lectures they're giving and roger  hallam is going to university campuses  and saying to some teenagers  some teenagers are stupid and  some are mentally [ __ ] like we've  been talking about this to what extent  some of these people are mentally  disabled and who engage in acts of  violence this way you know well some  people are stupid and some people  extreme and if you look at what he's  telling people he's really talking them  into uh frankly terrorism that's my  analysis of what he's saying sorry i  have film clips of him where he's making  the comparison to september 11th and i  say look think about what he's saying  think about how that's going to sound  like maybe a really intelligent person  has a sophisticated perspective on it  like oh okay and  in some ways this is like september 11th  and in some ways it's not well not  everyone's that abstract and  sophisticated like some people are going  to hear  this this segment of what he's saying  about september 11 they're going to  think that's what they should do they  should do something really violent like  this you know um  you know i've raised the anyway i've  raised the concern that there are  hard-working honest people who became  the mayor of a small town  and they say well why doesn't my opinion  about ecology matter and his does you  know now there are other comparisons  elon musk  elon musk is an imbecile  why is it that what elon musk says  matters so much more than a congressman  than a senator than a parliamentary you  know a backbench parliamentary uh  official parliamentarian elected member  problem whatever you know why is it elon  musk's opinion and some some activist  some activist who blocks the streets or  perhaps an activist who engages in  terrorism or the unibombers why is it  their opinion matters more certainly  than the vast majority of people who  engage in our semi-democratic systems  and and you know work their way up to  work throughout the top that way now you  know part of the answer is exactly  because our systems are only  semi-democratic i think there are very  good reasons why people don't respect  their congressman people don't care what  they what the senate has to say they  don't and they care about what elon musk  has to say they care about what kim  kardashian is saying it's not for no  reason if you were closer to the  athenian ideal i think you would have a  kind of democracy where people are  really involved and where its people the  people who are like kim kardashian in  your life are the demagogues at the  panics like you know i mean also  politics in athens was shallow in some  ways i mean every single every single  chapter in plutarch's lives it always  talks about how handsome these guys were  you know like we were reading the life  of alcabiatis but any of the political  leaders in athens it mattered they were  handsome it mattered that they were also  just mentioning like politics is not all  not overcome  that we have our power that we have the  ability to express our voice we don't do  it yeah that's right look that's right  and that's why people are in cells and  that's why they're you know they don't  think you're crazy terrorists like the  universe yes so but what you were  talking about uh long ago now uh you  were saying that  oh gosh there's just there's just so  much to cover here but i just say you  know um  you can go to your local zoning meeting  yes to the town hall but people are not  doing that and most of the people that  are there are old  overweight  yes just daughtering old people that  just don't want things to change they  just are afraid of change in their  society um they  probably have old racist ideas about  just the community what they what they  want in their community you know this is  a major issue and the the level that we  do have democracy right um in  the united states in canada  in europe you know how many people are  really attending these meetings how many  people really care and um  i just want to say i i understand what  you were saying earlier too that like  um  you choose your own burden like you know  the burden that you carry like right you  don't feel beholden to  be a politician in toronto just because  you grew up in toronto you know uh you  have taken on these political  uh ideologies that that matter way more  to you than  right and what matters is what matters  to me that ultimately it's my decision  whether it's going to be cambodia or el  salvador or whatever but it could be  toronto and it could be chicago yeah  yeah but if you attend those  small meetings right now you do actually  have the ability to make  make waves you know you can you can  really get your voice heard so look i i  agree and i've had the experience but i  would say even more this is kind of  similar to the incel thing  even if you fail  you're going to learn something from  that failure and you're going to gain a  perspective that matters right  so  let's say it's detroit  and you start getting involved in local  politics in detroit  and you decide these people are all  idiots i don't want anything do these  people this political process is uh  let's whether it's that it's corrupt or  it's just it's not really democratic or  like you know you have you have that  experience you have your analysis of it  you see what's wrong with it even if  it's a total failure at every step of  the way right for one thing now you know  that  and you can't read that in a university  textbook on political science like even  university level study of politics they  don't teach you that they don't you know  like nowhere in the world so you know  okay now you've had that experience  and now you know so you get pissed off  you again this has to do a lot with  self-pity  you feel sorry for yourself and now  you've got to start making some  decisions along the lines of what next  so what next you know maybe you just  move to another city maybe move to a  small town maybe you live in a cabin in  the woods maybe you find a different way  maybe you become a creative artist you  become a filmmaker maybe you say you  know what i'm going to become a  documentary filmmaker and i'm going to  show how [ __ ] up  city hall is i'm going to show a corrupt  or democratic process i'm going to show  it's not a democrat at all doesn't even  have to be  uh documentary film you can do drama you  can make you know fiction or it's a  fictional narrative showing the way  elections really work in america and the  way that negotiations at city hall  really work and you know where it's it's  this kind of thing you can respond to  this in all kinds of different ways so  like you're talking about a situation  where failing is worth doing the  frustration is worth having and then the  analysis of the reflection on that that  failure right it's going to lead to  something it's going to us on positive  yeah and you know sorry so there's some  intelligent uh comments here but when  somebody says here uh so  uh dangerous kitty says  um  uh isil's argument assumes that even the  biggest geek in the world can get some  woman somewhere to to marry them um and  then i think he or she is adding i guess  for herself a quote and if incels could  accept that they'll never get margo roby  that can at least get somebody  yeah  anyway uh margot robe is an interesting  example i i margo wrote me can't get me  i'm just being real with you i would not  [ __ ] margaret roby she's below my  standards i would be rejecting her  you know real talk  um  you know for all if you haven't watched  the other two hours of this video  you know watch the rest of it and i'll  you know you'll you'll get why but like  you know i know like it's i know you're  picking the example the guys have to  give up the delusion they can get with  margot roby but i'm in a position where  marco ruby can't  can't get with me okay but like  you know um  if you are going to city hall  and getting frustrated and failing and  analyzing why and then you're starting  some new project whether it's a creative  project or whether you say you know what  i'm going to learn spanish el salvador  i'm going to learn cambodia i'm going to  take on other things i can struggle with  we've given all these examples or you  decide you know what  city hall is corrupt and hopeless and  there's no democracy so i'm gonna get  involved with feeding the homeless like  it could be you're gonna do some kind of  uh charity project that builds you up  that way like there are so many  different ways to respond positively to  the lack of democracy he said i'm saying  like i'm just saying this because  melissa was saying well if you do get  involved in democracy you can still make  some difference and my answer is maybe  and maybe but my point is even if that's  not your experience even if your  experience is that you can't make a  difference  and then you engage in analysis of why  that leads thing positive  but  so kitty this person's using the name  kitty  that's the sense in which i think you  can win  right in your personal life in your  romantic life also by developing  yourself intellectually in response to  you know those those challenges uh again  and again and again  and  you know all of these things involve  other people who are engaged in  the same meaningful struggle  you're engaged in like doing  humanitarian work i'm just using disease  to visualize even if you're just  literally feeding the homeless you set  up that kind of humanitarian foundation  you're gonna meet people who find you  interesting and they want to have lunch  with you and  i'm not saying you do this intentionally  as a way to meet members down to sex but  i think you can imagine even if you have  lunch with  a  an elderly  couple like it's a married couple and  they're also doing this kind of  humanitarian work and you're an  interesting intelligent person you're  just intellectual doing this political  act and this charitable act they're  probably saying you know what  we have a granddaughter we you know they  may not say it to you they try to  introduce your their granddaughter and  things it brings people into your life  who actually respect you intellectually  who actually respect you ethically  um  you know and you want to be a part of  your life in a  in a meaningful way  you know  and i'm glad by the way i see that  sullen potato was not too offended by my  my uh my thoroughgoing response to his  his or her comments earlier we're left  to guess the gender of  of selling potato  another interesting comment from selling  potato quote imagine if these highly  intellectual people  committed to improving this aspect of  themselves instead of choosing in  instead of choosing not to because it's  difficult they could contribute so much  more to their communities  you can see i mean this is someone who  says a totally different set of values  for me a totally different perspective  on the world so selling potato  i notice you say that i'm beholden to my  community or we're beholden to our  communities  why not my grandparents  why not my parents why not my ancestors  that would be more of a traditional  chinese view of the world like you  should study confucius you should  develop yourself intellectually  so that you can do honor  to the ghosts of your deceased ancestors  so because like you're beholden to your  parents and your grandparents  why don't you work hard and develop  yourself intellectually so you can  contribute to your own parents  right now we don't think that way but  i'm taking the next step and saying look  i have no obligation to my parents i  have no obligation to my grandparents i  have no obligation to the city of  toronto  or the city of chicago right  like my and this doesn't mean i live a  life without obligations  i recognize that the obligations i have  are the obligations i choose  and those obligations can change and the  good news is that taking on those  obligations will change me also right  now the other thing i find fault with  here is selling potato where again your  view of the world is just incompatible  with mine it's very different  you notice this comment begins by saying  imagine  if these highly intellectual people did  x  you know did this or that  nobody intrinsically is a highly  intellectual person  right it's a con sorry melissa five  years ago i mean she was talking about  it herself earlier who was melissa five  years ago who was melissa ten years ago  right you build this up brick by brick  who i am today  is the result of a process broke by work  and by the way there are aspects of my  intellectual development i neglected i  was talking to melissa yesterday about  to what extent should we spend some time  on math because i i used to have jobs  where i did math all day every day and  you do you build it up you build it  think quickly well you know now for many  many years i've neglected my ability in  math it's not some great tragedy in my  life but you know you have to recognize  this and there are ways in which  intellectually i've let myself uh  degenerate there are ways in which i've  pressed forward it can't it can't be  everything i never learned to play a  musical instrument i never learned to  drive a car there are ways in which i  just never developed skills and so on  and so forth you know but like you know  um  [Music]  you know  i i'm rejecting this idea that you're  born  an intellectual that this is part of  your character  um whether fixed by birth or by the  social class regards by anything else i  am radically optimistic  that kristen leo and tess begg  and ali hardesty  uh  all of these people could be  intellectuals they could become  intellectuals in just five years  if they wanted to  right if they gave it 110  you know  and i mean again obviously i can use  male examples too and they're even more  saddening and a lot of them are guys  i've communicated with and i've spoken  to directly but you know  who would james aspie be today  if just five years ago you know he'd  started watching this youtube channel i  know james asked you've seen this  youtube channel i don't have to get into  why but i'm less than six degrees of  separation from these people what if he  had taken seriously the message of this  youtube channel and started leading an  intellectual life  james aspy's life to my knowledge now it  consists of lifting weights it consists  of smoking marijuana i believe he  identifies as someone who smokes  marijuana every day but if not nearly so  he's a heavy regular marijuana smoker  and intellectually he is just completely  degenerated he's gotten stupider and  stupider as he's gotten older um he's  more and more ignorant he's more and  more pathetic intellectually physically  he still looks good with his shirt off  he can still poke that's exactly what he  does he stands on the beach in his in  his underwear or in his bathing suit he  poses  he's kept the other way i don't know for  how long and i don't know if he uses  steroids and other performance skills i  don't know if he uses testosterone  booster you know that's the most common  one now is so-called trt uh testosterone  boosting therapy too you know but it  really is the same thing as steroids  gear is gear people and boosting your  testosterone to superhuman levels it is  uh it is what's known it's what's  thought of as steroids even though on a  chemical level it's a different type of  chemical from steroids um i don't know  if he does that i don't know if he'll  keep doing that you know like i i i  don't know that physical side of it  but  you know james aspie is a terrifying  example  of what it's like to grow old when you  embrace the unexamined life when you  embrace this unintellectual  anti-intellectual life that is just not  worth living  and so just to give him credit  james aspie is reaching out for a more  meaningful life he is trying in his way  to be a political leader an intellectual  that's what makes it so tragic he's  trying to be a leader for the vegan  movement he's trying to convince  he has his own political and ecological  aspirations and he even tried as a  disgust at length he tried to be a kind  of financial and economic leader you  know he's tried to do other things but  you know the the desire and the yearning  is there the attempt and the motivation  is is there  um  but instead  someone asked the audience why do you  keep mentioning el salvador why don't  you pick up a pick up a newspaper okay  why don't you get up to date with the  news from el salvador there's a lot  going on politically el salvador it's a  really interesting place right now okay  what do you mean what could be more what  could be more important for us to talk  about than else elsewhere all these all  these examples matter to me i care i  care about political future about  salvatore i care about the political  future of cambodia like it doesn't it  doesn't mean nothing to me guys  um  all right just catching up with your  comments and then i think we're going to  call it a wrap if you guys have a second  hit the thumbs up as i say it helps  people discover the video  uh when it when it goes into uh goes  into cold storage here on youtube  yeah  so we get some more comments from potato  saying that he he agrees with a lot of  what i'm saying which is great i happen  to hear it  yeah  so uh selling potato makes an  interesting point one of selling  potatoes points has been to say that i  didn't live a solipsistic life as an  intellectual that i did things that  mattered like going to cambodia going to  cambodia to do research and humanitarian  work so i  disappoint i mean and i think that's  part of our discussion  about what the difference is between  watching anime and doing something  meaningful no matter how low we set the  the requirement for something meaningful  because shakespeare shakespeare isn't  that much more meaningful than anime but  it is shakespeare isn't that much more  meaningful than playing video games but  it is it's over this this threshold um  so i do think you can reflect  further on the precise way in which my  studying the cambodian language and  caring about cambodian politics and  going to cambodia the way the ways in  which it's more meaningful than the  things most in-cells are doing with  their time and most most married men are  doing most married men don't complain  about not getting laid but they spend  all their time watching sports on  television or maybe they watch anime too  they're married men who play video games  and watch anime most people are wasting  time this is this is true however  um selling potato i've said this in  other videos this isn't the first time  i'm saying this uh  you know  but my life in cambodia was a failure  like everything i wanted to do  everything i aspired to everything i  tried to do in cambodia failed  uh now there's a very positive element  to that i was just describing you go to  city hall you get involved in democracy  and you fail and fail and fail but  something positive  yeah i will say i my sense of optimism  about that at that time when i made that  comment that you know right you could be  using our voices democratically right  small right hall meetings is based on  the fact that i didn't do it myself yes  right right no and this is interesting  it's instructed because the contrast is  i say well if you do that you're  probably going to fail but that can be  really rewarding anyways it's different  right right  right you were involved in the green  party yes  i got involved in politics at several  levels yeah  out of having right no experience  politically really in the real world but  you have a lot more political experience  right right but i would just mention  melissa you've seen totally fit the  woman there was the woman from saginaw  michigan yeah  yeah so  carly hammond she's she's a youtuber and  political person uh who responded to me  once on facebook but only once you  didn't want to talk it's cool  you know  whether you think of  carly hammond in saginaw michigan  what do you think of the young turks  there are youtube channels that show you  what it's like to try to participate in  elections and try to participate at city  hall or again elections and democracy at  any level and  it's nothing is the same as doing  yourself feeling yourself but my point  is  i think almost all of them are failures  all of them are showing you family so  i'm just saying the way i talk about  cambodia likewise i really  talk about it as a failure but as a  somewhat meaningful failure so i'm not  i'm not being a cynic here i'm not being  catty but like  did i save one person's life  in cambodia no you know what i mean like  it's just not the case that i saved a  human life  now conversely it's possible to be like  a um work in the medical field to be an  emt or something work as a nurse or  workers work on an ambulance and you did  go to cambodia and save someone's life  but it's really kind of meaningless and  if you hadn't done it someone else would  have been on the job that day like it  really doesn't mean yeah you went to  cambodia you saved this guy's life but  if you hadn't been here someone else  would have been driving the ambulance  that day and who gives a [ __ ] and  nothing really came like so the saving  the life thing is is in some ways you  know deceptive and in terms of outcomes  no i don't want to get into the details  yes  the work i did in cambodia did have some  impact on the world did have some real  outcomes but even if it didn't even if  we say look isil's research  and humanitarian work and what he tried  to do even if we say it failed to such  an extent that it had zero impact in the  world which it didn't i just don't want  to get into cataloging my  accomplishments and and what difference  but there were there was some impact  there was some difference in the world  but  my point is this is still good it's  still meaningful it's still positive  even if there are no positive  consequences for society for community  and that's why i refuse to talk about  this stuff as being you being beholden  to your community as an intellectual and  i certainly don't think you're beholden  to the consequences to the outcomes this  way like it may sound surreal but like  you can get involved with  feeding starving people like one of the  simplest forms of charity  and you failed to feed even one starving  person like you know your your whole  charity your whole political movement is  a failure i mean it's i know it's  difficult to imagine something being a  total failure that way but i've i've  read about case studies i've really i've  looked at case studies you have  charities that  accomplish none of their goals  and still especially in the context of  this conversation we're still talking  about developing yourself intellectually  leading a meaningful life  i mean guess what you don't accomplish  anything watching anime or playing video  games so you know in a really weird  sense i'm kind of i'm kind of focused on  the worst case scenario and pointing out  how how wonderful it is  um and that and it's true i do think of  my own experience it's not false  humility i think of it as a as a as a  failure and so on  okay so  dangerous kitty has made a series of of  comments you know and again i sympathize  but it's it's kind of important to  emphasize the way in which i disagree  with you so dangerous kitty says quote i  might be able to agree with isil if you  define intellectual development broadly  to mean being as knowledgeable as a  person of average intelligence can be  in some important topic  so  again i don't think of intelligence  as a static trait like height  i can't be taller and i can't be shorter  unless i have a horrific car accident  you know what i mean like this after a  certain age  you're as tall as you're gonna be and  that's it okay i just do not view  intelligence that way um i view your  intelligence as something you can  develop something you can extend  are there limits to this yes in many  many videos i've mentioned i have one  brother who was born mentally disabled  and if i haven't said it before i'll say  it now to my knowledge he was mentally  disabled because his mother attempted  suicide during the pregnancy so it's  really tragic but as far as i know it's  not genetic and sense of dna but his  mother who is not my mother is a  different woman um you know attempted  suicide during the pregnancy and this  this is exactly what my father told me  and obviously it was one of the greatest  tragedies in my father's life we we do  not know to what extent my father's own  psychological problems were a result of  that experience by the way um  to be honest i just don't give them that  much credit and i already know i already  know what a terrible person my father  was before that like in the years before  that so  i don't treat my father as a victim of  this at all  but nevertheless um you know so i i i  i look at when i look at my brothers  collectively  i can't say all of them are born with  the same intellectual capacity i have  put it that way however  um so you know to continue dangerous  kitty's comment quote james aspie  couldn't do what you do isil nearly as  well as you  i mean it would be good if you read a  book once in a while and didn't smoke  weed  but nevertheless  okay but this is what i'm saying to you  sincerely this is with no false humility  and again i look at most of my brothers  my brothers who were not born [ __ ]  my brothers who were not you know their  mother didn't attempt suicide during  pregnancy you know i look at the other  brothers of my family none of whom are  intellectuals in any way you know i mean  you don't know  how far he could take it  you don't know  what a wonderful person he could be  today intellectually if he had gotten on  this path five years ago if he got in  this path five years ago like you don't  know and he doesn't know  either  now there is this youtuber there's  nothing interesting about her so  unfortunately if you look her up you're  gonna be disappointed there's this  youtuber called  uh ally hardesty  and she was put on  uh legal prescription methamphetamines  at a shockingly early age i'm sorry i  forget how old she was but her parents  took her to get assessed for uh  attention deficit disorder and she was  given these pills and basically she was  told she was stupid she was always going  to be stupid and she needed these pills  to help her cope with being stupid she  was given an excuse to not really study  and not try hard and not develop herself  intellectually and you know her being  told that her being given that diagnosis  probably had a more profound influence  on her life than the  drugs but the drugs have a big uh impact  the drugs being mentioned here they are  methamphetamines they're legal they're  not illegal but it's the government and  the healthcare system giving  methamphetamines and you know among  things you know they ruin your sleep so  they do make you feel more jumpy and  energetic  during one part of the day but they ruin  both the quality of your sleep and the  quantity of your sleep they have quite a  range of negative side effects now in  her case i said this before she  questioned methamphetamines  whatever  before she questioned her diagnosis with  attention deficit disorder before she  questioned the drugs and the really  negative impact on her life back when  she was positive about them and we was  just making videos saying hey it's great  everyone needs to be on these drugs and  she was only saying pause things but  i'll make it made her life better  um  you know  my assessment of her was that she was a  person of normal intelligence or to be  honest even a little bit above average  intelligence but she had been given an  excuse  to be a self self-indulgent lazy nitwit  and to get on these drugs and get this  drug habit going  and as a result she dropped out of  university that she was definitely  intelligent enough to complete a  university education  and whatever you know and i'm just  saying this honestly  if james aspie did not live the  lifestyle of james aspie in all these  ways you don't know how far he could  take it you don't know how intelligent  he could be and i'm sorry there's no one  i can bring on camera to tell you what  an idiot i was when i was 18 years old  you know i'm sorry i mean 16 is even  better or something there were a lot of  people there were people who thought i  was [ __ ] there people thought you  know  you know people thought i was really  stupid i was dumb once you know i was  ignorant once you know i i had to work  my way out of this you know you don't  know  positively  what james aspie is capable of or what  allied hardesty is is capable of and  they don't know  either  you know so are there limits are some  people just born so mentally [ __ ]  say i have this one brother he's never  spoken a word he's never spoken a  sentence in any language you know his  his mental capacity is  zero he could never even go to primary  school let alone university you know  okay but with that footnote set aside  um  [Music]  you know i don't buy it and i i i just  you know i i don't believe that there is  this innate inequality that separates me  from my own brothers with the exception  of the one who was born [ __ ] i don't  believe there is this innate inequality  that separates me from ali hardesty or  or james aspie that's why i'm so tough  on them you know that's why i'm so mean  to them it's because i actually feel  they can do what i do too and you know  even if you say well you know it's a  good way to play so he couldn't do what  you do  as well he couldn't do it nearly as well  as you do but in some ways  he would be better right like if other  people  lead the life of the mind and develop  themselves intellectually they're gonna  have some strengths just as i have some  some weaknesses you know and look so  again this this relates to what i think  of as intelligence and what i think was  intellectual development  my areas of greatest intellectual  weakness  are the things  that i find boring  and where i cannot motivate myself i  cannot compel myself  to do the research now i'll give you an  example that you guys will find  interesting like in a sense i do too  okay there are claims being made  about the new solar power systems in  south australia  and elon musk is involved okay so  there's a lot of false propaganda some  of it coming from elon musk some of it  coming from the government of government  of australia  how  fictional are the claims about this  amazing new  solar technology breakthrough another  person who was at the same level of  intelligence as me or even a lower level  of intelligence just almost  aesthetically they might be able to  throw themselves into researching all  the details of that and they may you  know like a certain kind of guy  would have in his garage a bunch of  solar panels and would you know like he  wouldn't just be doing that the research  should be tinkering with it and he'd be  really wanting to understand like on an  engineering level the technology even if  his work had nothing to do with that and  where he'd want to come on youtube and  really talk about okay look people are  saying elon musk made this breakthrough  and here like get into crunching the  numbers here's the amount of electricity  being generated here's how much it cost  go through the government budgets for  this  is it is it really what some newspaper  headlines are saying now as you can  guess i am suggesting to you that i'm  very skeptical i don't really believe  that south australia has made this this  breakthrough that newspapers are  claiming they have  but i don't know  and i'm not motivated you know to to do  that research you know i'm not to me  like in a sense interesting but in a  sense it's it's boring right so now  maybe james look so james aspie  if he had developed himself  intellectually for five years in this  sense right he might be really motivated  to to to put in that work and get those  you see what i'm saying like even if you  only think of that as an aesthetic  difference between us people can be much  less intelligent than me and kind of get  better results and and better outcomes  and there are going to be things they're  better at right you know you know  why have i neglected my ability in math  i feel like in the last 20 years or  something there's really been nothing  meaningful in my life connected to math  i'm sorry let's say 10 years you know i  i i that's how i feel about it um  and maybe i'm wrong like maybe i'd be a  better person today if i'd made math a  priority instead of learning the chinese  language which may be totally useless to  me like you know maybe i'm wrong that  some of these other things i studied i  shouldn't have been studying if i'd  instead been doing math or electrical  engineering and guys i have i'm on no  ego trip here zero  i don't think i'm superior to people who  get into electrical engineering i don't  it's different you know what i mean and  there are things i understand that they  don't understand and they're and vice  versa you know there's some selective  blindness  on on both sides you see what i'm saying  um  and look you know uh again i have a fan  of the channel uh oliver he has his own  youtube channel he always likes to bring  up um karl popper's concept of  falsifiability  i will be the first person to admit that  what i have just said to you is not  falsifiable there is no way we can test  the scientific hypothesis  that if james aspie lived my lifestyle  he could be smarter than me put it out  you know there's no way we can test the  hypothesis that in a five-year period  ali hardesty could be could be  positively motivated to develop herself  intellectually and  um be as smart as me or like whatever  however you're gonna calibrate this test  there's no way we can test this  or falsify it even if we go back to my  hypothetical example from hours ago now  of 10 different soldiers in the army and  one of them is sincerely motivated to  develop himself intellectually and the  other nine are not  i can't even test the hypothesis would  the other nine be better soldiers if  they were intellectually motivated like  this guy  we can't even do that you know so i i'm  the first person to admit that what i'm  saying here is dogmatic  what i'm saying here is optimistic  and  as i say by mentioning my mentally  [ __ ] brother um  sometimes what i'm saying is going to be  wrong  sometimes and maybe the unabomber is a  great example of that like maybe the  unabomber  he was just  too stupid like maybe he was literally  [ __ ]  you know like maybe he's just too stupid  to ever benefit from education life the  mind reading books  or anything else  you know so  sometimes i'm wrong but what i'm saying  to you so passionately again and again  is  how many  times will i be right in how many  instances are we talking about someone  who really could have benefited someone  who could have transformed themselves  someone who could have transformed a  small political movement like veganism  someone who could have changed the fate  of nations whether that's a tiny country  like el salvador whether it's a small  town or a big city like it's the  politics of chicago it's politics of  that scale how many people could have  changed the world positively through the  creative arts  you know  because can the arts they magnify the  impact you have in the world you're just  one person and nobody cares about your  opinion you can sit around and feel  sorry for yourself because your  potential your your um  your ideas don't matter  well your ideas matter if you make them  matter and if you just paint if you just  paint them in a picture you create a  beautiful painting you create a work of  art all of a sudden your ideas start to  matter you make a song that's kind of  patchy and all of a sudden your ideas  start to matter you make a film whether  it's a documentary film or a fictional  thing you your ideas matter in as much  as you you  make them matter you know um  [Music]  you know we don't know  about how many people i'm right  how many of these people if they started  leading a meaningful life if they  started prioritizing their intellectual  development they could change much much  more than their sex lives they could  change much much more than their own  than their own personal happiness and  i'm sorry but you know i can't um  i can't help but repress my optimism  i mean  it's two sides of the same coin  when i go to a university campus today  what do i see  i see people living the unexamined life  i see  people  completely committed to  short-term  sensual self-indulgence  nothing else  the university campus is full of people  who only care about drugs  alcohol getting laid watching sports on  tv they may be playing on the sports  team themselves you have no idea how  busy the gym is on university campus you  have no idea the idea how under utilized  the library is you know what i mean like  for real i've spent a lot of time  on university campuses  and the extent to which today university  students  live like you know middle-aged cocaine  addicts frankly like they're they're  they're what middle-aged people used to  be like in the 1980s you know but  they're still young they're young but  they have no idealism they have no  higher aspirations they're living for  short-term self-gratification and  self-indulgence that's what you see on  the university campuses and i look at  the at the professors  i mean it's the difference between the  conductor and the orchestra pit all the  same problems the students have  the professors are the same you know  it's i i can't say it's the blind  leading the blind it's  you know  it's the same evil  in the hearts and minds of the  professors that you see in the students  you know our university campuses are  temples  to self-indulgence  you know they're not  they're not a road map  to the life of the mind they're not  leading you on the way to developing  yourself as an intellectual they only  exist to encourage you to become more  committed to  um it's life of reckless self-indulgence  right so like my pessimism about the  institution  my pessimism about the culture  that is exactly the other side of the  coin where i look at these people  whether it's james aspie or ali hardesty  or so many others and it's like look  there is a better person you could be  today  if you'd made the same decisions i was  making just five years ago like think  about who you would be today  intellectually ethically and emotionally  who would you be today if five years ago  you started living the way i live  you know you can't think the way i think  because you don't look the way i live  you can't do what i do because you don't  live the way i live and it's not  overnight i mean five years is a good  span of time and then still today now i  look ahead to the next five years there  is this better person you could become  right  if if you started living this life if  you started challenging yourself in this  way  and i can't say that about weightlifting  i can't say that about yoga and that's  all that anyone [ __ ] says if only you  started doing yoga if only you started  doing weightlifting you could have a  better shape ass you don't like that's  it you could have a  a more appealing body  if if only you started doing yoga or you  started working at the gym i can't say  that to you i have to say to you 95 of  people who work their ass off at the gym  in the next five years are still going  to be ugly five years from now it's  they're going to be an incremental  change in their appearance some of them  are going to get worse some of them are  going to get fatter a lot of people fail  on their [ __ ] transformation journey  or  they get better looking but it just  doesn't matter there's no meaningful  change in their life intellectually  ethically or emotionally or it doesn't  even lead to them sleeping with a better  caliber of person you put in all this  [ __ ] work into the shape of your ass  and what do you get out of it jack [ __ ]  you know [ __ ] kristen leo starts  getting  botox injections in her face starts  getting  plastic surgery  now you look like a plastic surgery hat  you look older you look uglier you look  shallower you look vayner it doesn't  bring a better man into your life and to  some extent frankly she has  psychological problems doesn't overcome  your immaturity your lack of  intellectual development neither in  terms of like economics and politics and  that stuff nor in terms of your  sexuality how you relate to men and what  kind of relationship doesn't help you in  those ways like  you know  my optimism  that people can be leading a more  meaningful life is completely co-evil  with  it's it's the other side of the coin  with the assessment that the vast  majority of people are leading  meaningless lives that they're  performing way below  their their intellectual potential now  some of you can't relate to what i'm  saying some of you are going to say that  you were on a university campus the  other day and you felt you were  surrounded by uh  brilliant highly motivated people of all  ages  inspirational researchers and people who  want to make the world a better place  people are trying to develop their own  myself me  maybe that's your subjective experience  whether accurate or delusional after  visiting a university campus in your  hometown  think about egypt  think about people  who are born and raised in egypt today  male and female  this horrible repressive religion  where actually a lot of your time and  energy goes into the conflict  between  different ideas about what that religion  should be sectarian divisions within  islam right like a lot of your time and  energy  sexually repressive religion  intellectually  repressive religion  and now you're walking around  a university campus in egypt  these people have a lot of intellectual  potential  right  i've known muslims  my whole life you know you can meet  intellectual muslims and of course you  think hey  you could be leading a more meaningful  life there's a better life than mine but  in their case  it's not lifting weights at the gym  it's not yoga it's not alcohol it's not  watching sports on tv probably could be  could be watched  but it's not the particular  model of the self-indulgent life that  dominates on an american university  campus there's a very different  meaningless life  that dominates on an egyptian  university campus right so i think all  of you can relate to right away if  you're walking on a university campus in  egypt  there's a lot of intellectual potential  here that's going to ways there's a lot  that's being that's being squandered